By Tunde Opalana Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the prophecy of Chief Tony Momoh that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its leaders will be stoned for failure has come to pass as Nigerians are already stoning them with words. The party insisted that only betrayers of the collective welfare of the masses will find accommodation in a failed party like the APC. The PDP also counseled the leaders of APC to perish their contemplation of changing the party’s name as a desperate decoy to exonerate themselves from the failures of the party and President Muhammadu Buhari administration. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan on Thursday added that the APC has led the nation into widespread bloodletting and excruciating hardship as poverty capital of the world. “Our party is already aware of clandestine meetings being held by APC leaders following their realization that the APC, as a political party, has failed as a platform for governance and managing of the broad diversity of our nation. “The APC leaders, who are already troubled by the post President Buhari’s disastrous tenure in office, are planning to adopt a new name in order to beguile Nigerians once again”, said the party. The PDP further asserted that “the hopeless efforts by APC leadership to beguile Nigerians again with their showboating and false claims that opposition members are trooping into their party, will not save the APC from crashing, as only those who have lost relevance with the people, having betrayed their causes, that would seek accommodation in the sinking pirate ship called APC. “Indeed, only unpatriotic, expired and lily-livered individuals can seek to join a party like the APC that is synonymous with failure, nepotism, treasury looting, mindless stealing, corruption, falsehood, lies, capacity crisis, confusion, crass incompetence and which finds pleasure in foisting hardship and poverty on Nigerians. “Which patriotic Nigerians would want to join the APC that has wrecked our economy, reneged on all its campaign promises, looted over N15 trillion oil money, frittered over N2 trillion tax income, crashed the value of our naira, increased taxes, hiked the price of fuel and electricity, squandered our foreign reserves, shutdown over 50 million businesses, imposed a frightening 23 percent unemployment rate, accumulated N31trillon in debt and mortgaged our sovereignty to foreign interests through reckless borrowings? “Which patriotic Nigerian can join the APC that has willfully failed to secure our citizens from marauders, insurgents and bandits; a party under whose watch, the once happy and prosperous Nigerian citizens can no longer afford basic necessities of life to the extent that they now resort to suicide and slavery mission abroad as options? “The APC as a party has become irredeemably balkanized, overweighed with the burden of failure and can no longer be a platform for any credible Nigerian who has the intention to serve the people. “It is pitiable that while the APC leadership is grandstanding with lone defectors, majority of Nigerians are rallying with our party, having discovered that the APC is leading our nation to nowhere. READ ALSO: APC: Amaechi attacked over absence in South-South, FG meeting “After all, not a few APC governors as well as ministers in President Buhari’s cabinet and members of the National Assembly are already fed up and have expressed their readiness to join the rescue train, PDP”, the statement read. The party said it is concerned with the wellbeing and security of the citizens, particularly as the APC has shown that it has no capacity for governance and has no iota of regard for the good of Nigerians. It said, indeed, the last five years and particularly the traumatic events of the last two months have shown that the PDP remains the only credible platform for Nigerians across all sectors to realize their collective aspirations and dreams of a virile, united, secure, prosperous and inclusive Nigeria.