A good samaritan has rescued an 11-year- old boy, Wisdom Timo, who was found wandering in Ahoada East Local Government Area of Rivers State, Daily Times gathered. Timo, who according to him is an orphan and a resident of Power line Onitsha was rescued  at Rumuekpe junction in Rumuji under Emoha Local Government Area of Rivers State. According to the Nation, Timo who is the only son of his parents, was trekking to Onitsha from Ahoada where he stayed with a woman he was handed over to by his grand mother, a petty trader in Onitsha when he was found. Confirming the incident, the Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed said the victim had since been exposed to moral danger as efforts to locate his relations had been unsuccessful. READ ALSO: I only got a certificate after trekking for Buhari — Gombe man begs for medical assistance He said, “The Anambra State Police Command wishes to inform “Ndi Anambra” that an 11years old child who gave his name as Wisdom Timo and Resides at Power line Onitsha was found wandering in Ahoada East LGA of Rivers State. “The child who claimed he stays with his grand mother at the above address also said he was a student at “Benisamama Academy Onitsha”. “He is an orphan as both his parents are dead and he is the only offspring of his late parents. He call his grandmother “Mama Godspower” because she has a son called Godspower. “According to him, the grandmother sells retail food condiments under the overhead bridge at Onitsha. “The grandmother allegedly handed him over to a woman at that under bridge location and told him that the lady was taking him to AHOADA in Rivers State. “He stayed with the woman for about two days and escaped from her because according to him she was not feeding him well. He decided to trek back to Onitsha from there without knowing the way. “He was however, picked up by a good Samaritan at Rumuekpe junction in Rumuji under Emoha LGA of Rivers State and returned to AHOADA division in Rivers. “Several efforts made to locate his relations proved abortive and it is obvious that the child is exposed to moral danger. “Anyone with useful information about the chid’s relations should contact PPRO Anambra State Police Command through GSM no 08060970639.”