The People’s Democratic Party(PDP) former Deputy National Chairman Chief Bode George has implored President Muhammadu Buhari not to be a victim for those who would block the main issue desolating Lagos state in a needless  solicitous self-immersed scheming in partisan engagement. Daily Times gathers The former Governor of Osun State, Bisi Akande got an advise from Bode George not to engage in pointless pleading sessions for a man who is irrational about governing Nigeria. “The visit of Chief Bisi Akande, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, Dr Yomi Finnih, and Chief Segun Osoba to the seat of power in Abuja is needless, unnecessary, veiled in some poorly hidden agenda that is woven in apparently self-serving ulterior personalized desperation. READ ALSO: We’ve recorded notable achievements in 5 years, Buhari boasts “It is easy to discern that the visit is stripped of any patriotic progression, lacking in balanced national leadership, voided of a spirit of sacrifice and developmental vision. The very absence of Bola Tinubu from the jamboree screams to high heavens that the meeting itself is a covert placatory softening of the ground for Tinubu himself. I am pretty certain that in his very absence, Tinubu occupies the centrality of the discussion.Bode George, who is Atona Oodua of Yorubaland in his message titled, “The jamboree visit to the Villa: My Birthday Offering.” said that the very pivot of the Lagosian malady is the reckless, irresponsible misappropriation of the Lagosian commonwealth by Tinubu. “This much I have documented in several public interventions. This, I may add, contributed to the heightened scale of the disgruntlement and the anger of the youths who made the Lekki Tollgates the very symbol of their rejection of the politics of subjugation. “I will advise Baba Akande who governed Osun State with principled, incorruptible leadership to kindly help us drop off Bola Tinubu at Iragbiji as he makes his way back to Ila-Orangun, rather than engaging in fruitless pleading sessions for a man who is fixated on a warped pipe-dream about governing Nigeria. He should pay restitution for the egregious stripping of the Lagosian coffers.”