By Chioma Joseph As part of efforts to promote creativity and motivate youths in wealth creation amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the FashMode Reality Show Season 2, is set to kick off. According to the organiser of the show, Sandra Odige, the show will provide emerging fashion entrepreneurs and aspiring models the platform to showcase their talents, as well as fine-tune their crafts to meet International standards. Odige, who is also the founder of LA Mode Magazine, said that the show which will accommodate 30 contestant, will award the winner N15million, as the ultimate prize. She stated that while registration for participation in the show had started, it is expected to close by November 26, 2020. Speaking on FashMode Reality Show Season 2, Odige said: “La Mode Magazine, a leading fashion brand in Nigeria, and we are set to hold the second season of our new and innovative reality competition, ‘FashMode Reality Show’. “30 contestants are expected to compete for the winner takes all grand prices, which are worth over N15 million. “FashMode is a Fashion and Modelling reality TV show that looks to showcase and promote upcoming fashion entrepreneurs and models. “#FashMode2.0 will seek to promote the all-round talent, creativity and professionalism of emerging fashion designers and aspiring models, whilst also promote the idea of building a solid relationship between the designer and the model who will showcase their designs. READ ALSO: MultiChoice Brings Special Africa Magic Holiday Pop-up Channel “The winner gets N3 million cash, Gift prizes worth over N10 million, a trip to Dubai, multi-million naira worth of endorsement deals, and much more interesting surprise prizes that will be revealed during the course of the show.” On the registration, she added: “Registration is currently on-going, visit www.lamodespot.com for registration details. And follow @lamodemag, or @fashmode_ng on Instagram or email fashmode174@gmail.com for more information. Registration is free and open till November 26th.”