The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, has lamented the spate  of  insecurity in the North, saying it was the worst place in the country  to live. Daily Times gathered that the Sultan stated this at the fourth  quarterly meeting of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council in Abuja. The meeting had as  its  theme, ‘Questioning for peace in the challenges of insecurity and COVID-19’ While describing the North as the worst place to live, he said that bandits had  become daring. He said  they moved  from house to house, village to village, market to market, with AK-47 rifles  openly, purchasing foodstuffs and other items and even collecting  change without any challenge from the security agencies. READ ALSO: Court reserves judgment on Kano musician’s death sentence appeal over blasphemy The foremost traditional ruler stated  that the security system in the North had completely collapsed. He said, “Security situation in Northern Nigeria has assumed a worrisome situation. Few weeks ago, over 76 persons were killed in a community in Sokoto in a day. I was there with  the governor to commiserate with the affected community. “Unfortunately, you don’t hear these stories in the media because it’s in the North. We have accepted the fact that the North does not  have strong media to report the atrocities of these bandits. “People think North is safe but that assumption is not true. In fact, it’s the worst place to be in this country because bandits go around in the villages, households and markets with their AK 47 and nobody is challenging them. “They stop at the market, buy things, pay and collect change, with their weapons openly displayed. These are facts, I know because I am at the centre of it. “I am not only a traditional ruler, I am also a religious leader. So, I am in a better place to tell the story. I can speak for the North in this regard because I am fully aware of the security challenges there. We have to sincerely and seriously find solutions to the problem, otherwise, we will find ourselves soon, in a situation where we would lose sleep because of insecurity.” The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama, outlined a code of conduct for both Christians and Muslims in Nigeria. He said, “We Christians and Muslims must avoid imposing our religious views on others or denying them public amenities, jobs or influential positions because they don’t belong to our faith. “Merit, not the vigour of our religious piety or affiliation should determine all we do or get in this country. We should not unjustly or corruptly deprive others of their rights, not to talk of wounding or killing anyone for economic or partisan political interests or because of blind religious zeal. “It is preposterous that Nigerians clamouring for their rights and privileges from government would turn their anger on religious institutions by attacking Churches and Mosques, instigating Christians and Muslims to turn against one another or to destroy public amenities and infrastructure.