An Igbo group known as Igbo National Council (INC) worldwide has issued a 21-day quit notice to killer herdsmen in south eastern  part of Nigarian. The group in a statement on Monday said that , the Jihadists killer herdsmen have continue to attack communities in Benue, Enugu, Ebonyi, Anambra and Imo states respectively a proof of which was onn Friday 12th June 2020, a group of Jihadists killer Herdsmen who were still hiding in some forests in Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State attacked and brutally killed a men in cool blood at Mbano Autonomous Community in Agwa clan, Oguta LGA Imo State and flee away. Court fixes June 30 for judgment in Melaye’s suit against Infections Disease Bill The group’s statement  signed by Chilos Godsent President, Zulu Ofoelue Secretary General said: ‘You will remember that on Thursday May 21st 2020, the Igbo National Council (INC) worldwide rose from a crucial National Stakeholders meeting where we x-rayed the security situation in Nigeria more especially as it affected the Igbo Nation. Consequently, we issued a twenty one (21) days Quit Notice to the dreaded Jihadists Killer Herdsmen who were criminally occupying our farmlands and forests, plundering them and also raping and killing our women and men of decent blood. In deviance to this Quit Notice, the Jihadists Killer Herdsmen has continue to attack communities in Benue, Enugu, Ebonyi, Anambra and Imo States respectively. On Friday 12th June 2020, a group of Jihadists killer Herdsmen who were still hiding in some forests in Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State attacked and brutally killed a men in cool blood at Mbano Autonomous Community in Agwa clan, Oguta LGA Imo State and flee away. The INC viewed this deliberate attack on our people at Mbano Autonomous Community Oguta LGA as an affront on the Igbo Nation and a sign of vulnerability of some communities in the Igbo Nation. On the above, the Igbo National Council (INC) therefore charge all the Town Unions, Traditional Rulers and Youth Organizations of communities of the Igbo Nation that has not constituted their vigilante groups to immediately do so and quickly commence the combing of their community farmlands and forests to fish out and flush out remnant’s of these criminal elements who are still hiding in some of our forests waiting for order to attack and attempt to invade Igbo land. We therefore must rise up now to take our destinies into our own hands more especially now that it looks like many of the Governors of the Igbo National States of the Igbo Nation and our Legislators has compromised the security and welfare of our people in exchange for political patronage. We therefore commend and supports the boldness of Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe of Abia South and the Executive Chairman of the Oshimili North Local Government Area (LGA) of Delta State for rising up in defense of their people in the face of this unprovoked senseless criminal attack of the Igbo Nation by the Jihadists killer Herdsmen. We stand shoulder to shoulder with you in this liberation struggle. Noting: that Loins are the kings of the forests, we therefore have resolved to release our brave Lions to take possession of their kingdoms and flush out every criminal element they may find in their kingdoms who has preferred to live in the forests rather than living in human houses. Cognisance of our Rights to Self-determination, this 15th day of June 2020, the Igbo National Council (INC) worldwide hereby Launches “Operation Lion Walk” throughout the territories of the Igbo Nation. This operation is aimed at fishing out and flushing out every criminal elements who are criminally hiding in, or occupying our farmlands and forests using same as hide outs to commit sacralage against the Igbo Nation.