A number of male celebrities in Nigeria have been accused of rape ranging from inappropriate behavior to forced sexual misconduct to rape. This is coming after series of rape cases announced in the past weeks. First was miss Vera Uwaila Omozuwa was raped and killed in Benin, Edo State and barely few days after the occurrence, another vibrant female student of the Institute of Agriculture, Research and Training, Ibadan, Barakat Bello,was gang-raped and murdered in Ibadan. Before now,  Busola, Timi Dakolo’s wife caused a stir when she came out to allege that she was raped by popular Abuja pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo. Busola’s confession sparked off so much controversy with entertainers taking up the campaign. CELEBRITIES ACCUSED OF RAP 1. D’banj: After D’banj took to his Instagram handle to advocate for justice against rape and murder cases, in support of the late Omozuwa, he wrote, ‘#NoMeansNo We Need to Raise Our Sons right and Teach them to love and Respect Women. We Need Justice for Our GIRLS…Say NO to Rape, Racism, tribalism. Let us stop living in FEAR and HATE, and start living in LOVE” on his Instagram handle. A few hours later, a rape allegation was leveled against the Kokomaster by a talent manager, Benjamin Ese who claimed that the Afrobeat singer allegedly raped his friend in 2018. “Take this post down and stop clouting, stop being a preacher of Rape cos you’re a rapist,” Ese responded. Continuing he said, “So you still have the right to post on Rape it’s been two years my friend has been traumatized over this. And as of yesterday, she threatened to commit suicide, she’s so livid and mad seeing a rapist like you post this. If you know what’s good for you please take down that post before daybreak… Some of your celebs are goats.” 2. Peruzzi: Davido Music World act, Davido had written, “My name is Okoh Tobechukwu, I have never and will never be a rapist,” On Wednesday, an alleged victim, simply identified as Princess via her Twitter page @Jayamah22, accused Peruzzi of raping her. According to her, the Majesty singer made unwanted sexual advancement and had non-consenting sex with her sometimes in 2012. 3. Uti Nwachwukwu: on the 4th day of June 2020, one Lady identified as KAMBILI KORIE with this twitter handle: “@KambiliKorie” [a suspected catfish account] blatantly levied a heavy allegation of rape against our client in a series of tweet of the same date. 4. Uti Nwachukwu, on Friday, June 5,  filed a petition to the Inspector General of Police, demanding a full-scale investigation into an allegation of rape that was levelled against him on Twitter by a lady identified as Kambili Korie. 5. Zoro: Owoh Chimaobi Chrismathner popularly known as Zoro has come out to deny the rape allegations levelled against him. A young lady, Yachit, with the Instagram handle, @mystic_sweetness had taken to her Instagram page where she accused the rapper of forcefully having sex with her back in 2015. Zoro reacted to this, saying he is ready to pay the legal fees for the young lady to pursue a proper representation in court. 5. Brymo: A few weeks ago, the micro-blogging platform, Twitter, went on fire when a user called out Brymo for being a rapist. The accuser shared conservations with an alleged victim of Brymo. 6. Obesere: Another celebrity who falls on the list is Fuji maestro, Abass Akande Obesere. He was arrested after being accused of rape by one Miss Olanike Olaiya. For the ‘Egungun Be Careful’ singer, it was consensual, “We both enjoyed and had a nice time together. I have and will never rape a girl in my life,” he maintained in an interview. After several investigations, the Nigerian Police, however, affirmed that the lady was a blackmailer and declared Obesere innocent. According to Ngozi Braide, the Lagos Police PRO as at the time, the accuser fabricated the report. 7. African China: Similarly, Nigerian Reggae/dancehall artiste, Chinagorom Onuoha aka Africa China was reportedly accused of rape by an unnamed female when he was in the UK for a show in 2006. The shocking allegation led to the arrest of the ‘Mr. President’s singer. 8.Timaya:  In 2015, the Egberi Papa of Bayelsa, Timaya was accused of sexual misconduct by Atlanta-based upcoming artist, Sheila B. Sheila took to social media to reveal what had transpired between her and Timaya. Reacting to the allegations, the Bayelsa born singer denied all the allegations saying it was “consensual sex”. He admitted that he hooked up with the girl in his Atlanta hotel, but says she agreed to the sex. “It was consensual sex, the lady was a blackmailer who wanted to dupe me off $50K.”