…Inaugurate Committee members …APC is bigger than all of us – Giadom Governor of Yobe State and Chairman, Caretaker/ Extraordinary National Convention Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Mai Mala Buni, has assured the party that the committee will reconcile all leaders and members as well as reorganise the party within a few months. Buni, in his inaugural speech on Monday at the inauguration of members of the committee at the APC national secretariat said the crisis that led to the dissolution of the former National Working Committee is inevitable in politics and therefore could not be impossible to resolve. To achieve the task of the healing process placed on the committee by the National Executive Committee (NEC), he said all members must be involved in the reorganisation of APC. The caretaker committee chairman said “what happened to us as a party in the last few months is not totally strange in a big political Party such as the All Progressives Congress (APC), internal disagreements are common in all political parties, so ours is not an exception. “Change is inevitable and disagreement on issues and concepts are an integral part of human and institutional relationships. As a political Party built on strong ideology and, parading men and women of enduring principle and integrity, we must prepare for real and anticipated changes and their consequences. “The outcomes of changes that evolve in our party politics must be decided by us. “As the interim managers and leaders of our party, our priority would be the recognition of the need to act appropriately and acceptably in the overall interest of the party. Our actions in the next few months would be proactive and responsive. “From now onward, we will concentrate on medium and long term development of our strategies and internal organization to support our public standing as well as our chances of electoral successes in all future elections. “lt is time for this committee therefore, to commence the process of true reconciliation among leaders and members of the party at all levels. It is our belief that the decision by NEC to constitute this committee will mark the beginning of a new chapter in our great Party. “To achieve this, I urge all party members to heed to the appeal by our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on his call to all aggrieved members who have instituted various cases in the courts to please withdraw such cases in the interest of our great-party”. He called on members to rally round the caretaker committee saying “I call on leaders and members of our great party to put the past behind us and strengthen ourselves for all current and future challenges”. Buni appreciated members affected by the dissolution of NWC for accepting the verdict in the overall interest of APC. “Our thanks and appreciation also goes to all stakeholders who stood by the party in its time of turbulence and the great patriotic leaders especially the former NWC members who showed maturity and belief in the party unity by accepting the NEC resolution in good faith”. The other 12 members of the committee were earlier inaugurated by the  Director, Legal Services of the party, Dare Oketade. The other members of the committee named at the emergency NEC meeting last Thursday include: Sen. John Akpan Udoedehe (Secretary),  Isiaka Oyetola, Governor Osun (South West), Ken Nnamani (South East), Stella Okorete – Women Representative, Sani Bello, Governor Niger ( North Central) and Dr. James Lalu (representing the physically challenged), Others are; Sen. Abubakar Yusuf-(Senatè representative), Hon. Akinremi Olaide ( representing the House of Representatives), David Lyon (South South),  Abba Ari (North West),  Prof. Tahir Mamman (North East) and Ismail Ahmed (representing the Youth). Meanwhile, former acting National Chairman, Chief Victor Giadom while expressing confidence in the ability of the caretaker committee to strengthen the party, said that APC is greater than every member of the party. He said President Muhammadu Buhari and some leaders have rescued the party and that it will be repositioned to greater height with the calibre of people so selected by the National Executive Committee (NEC) to pilot the leadership of this party.  He called on members of the immediate past NWC  to learn from their mistakes,  and join hands with the Caretaker Committee to strengthen the party. “The party is bigger than all of us. So,  it is our collective responsibility as former members of NWC to hand in hand with the committee to see to the success of the committee. “APC is a larger family and every family,  there is bound to be disagreement and what is important is the ability of the family to come to agreement.  “Today,  with the formation of a caretaker committee, we have close to agreement and I’m sure this committee will do the needful and our party will become stronger”, he said.