 A four-year-old girl simply identified as Azeezat,  was on Thursday swept away by flood at No 38 Fashiola Street, off Igbayi -Ola street, Orile-Agege, Lagos, following the early morning downpour. The flood which affected various  parts of the state, had also caused a bungalow at  No 12 Hassan Adejobi Street, Orile-Agege to collapse,  injuring a mother and daughter. Information has it that Azeezat and her other family members were seeking a safe place, following the flood, when she mistakenly fell into the drainage channel. According to the Director -General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency(LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Damilola Oke-Osanyintolu, 20 families were displaced by the flood. Insecurity: Excuses will no longer be tolerated, says Buhari, charges Service Chiefs to do more He further stated that recuse operation by LASEMA and officials of NEMA, was still ongoing, to recover the girl. Speaking on the incident, Oke-Osanyintolu said the agency received information about the flooding around 10:30 a.m. He said: “ Upon arrival of our response team at the incident scene in the company of NEMA officials, it was gathered from residents that a four-year-old girl named  Azeezat, fell into a  flooded big ditch/gutter while escaping to safety with her family in the wee hour of the night after their compound was submerged by flood. “  The Agency’s officials in collaboration with the officials of NEMA carried out Post Disaster Assessment and observed that; three streets were affected by the heavy rainfall/flood. (Igbayiola street, Fashola Street, Egbatedo street), “ There are barriers blocking the drainage channels in the affected areas leading to the canals at aboru, Arugbanla and iyana ipaja which could have also caused the flooded from flowing away. The victim is yet to be found,  however, search and recovery of the body of the victim still ongoing.”  Also commenting on the partial collapse of a storey-building at No. 3 Sadiku Street, Iyana-Ipaja, he said: “ Upon arrival at the scene of incident, it was discovered that a storey building consisting of eight rooms, 23 shops and one store had partially collapsed. “ Further investigation carried out by our response team revealed that, the adjoining fence to the staircase collapsed. This also affected the toilet of the adjacent building. “ No loss of live(s) nor injury were recorded. However, the affected area has been cordoned off and integrity testing will be carried out. Operation still ongoing.” Daily Times reported that houses and streets in Lekki, Egbeda, Surulere, Ebute-Metta, and other areas were also affected by heavy flooding.