19-year-old Black Lives Matter protester Oluwatoyin “Toyin” Salau has reportedly been found dead a little over a week after she went missing in Tallahassee, Florida. The City of Tallahassee Police Department reported Sunday morning (Jun. 14) that two bodies were found just after 9:15 p.m. Saturday night (Jun. 13) while police were investigating a missing persons case. Though officials have not released the names of the deceased, friends and family of Salau have confirmed via social media that one of the bodies found by police was hers. Salau was last seen on June 6th, the day she wrote a series of disturbing messages on Twitter. I’m sorry to inform everyone about this but Toyin is no longer with us https://t.co/HK85TgGFhV Just hours before she disappeared, Salau tweeted that a man had molested her that morning. Anyways I was molested in Tallahassee, Florida by a black man this morning at 5:30 on Richview and Park Ave,” she wrote. The man offered to give me a ride to find someplace to sleep and recollect my belongings from a church I refuged to a couple days back to escape unjust living conditions.” Anyways I was molested in Tallahassee, Florida by a black man this morning at 5:30 on Richview and Park Ave. The man offered to give me a ride to find someplace to sleep and recollect my belongings from a church I refuged to a couple days back to escape unjust living conditions. She continued: “He came disguised as a man of God and ended up picking me up from nearby Saxon Street. I entered his truck only because I carry anything to defend myself not even a phone (which is currently at the church) and I have poor vision. I trusted the holy spirit to keep me safe. “When we arrived at his house he offered me a shower and I thanked him and shower and he gave me a change of clothes. He exposed himself to me by peeing with the bathroom open obviously knowing I was out of it. “I told him about a sexual assault situation that happened to me in March involving Ivan a 32 year old Ghanaian man who currently schools at FAMU and lives at 211 Jakes and Patterson (I am currently 19 years old) who tried to force me to give him oral sex and then continued to [harass] me thru text and knocking at my door for days.” Possibly describing her alleged attacker, she added in a separate follow-up tweet: “Mid 40’s lives in a gray painted duplex apartment style house drives a white clean Silverado Chevrolet truck.” READ ALSO Real Madrid return with convincing win over Eibar A number of people replied to her Twitter thread offering help and asking whether she was OK. But she never responded and those tweets would end up being among the last messages she posted before she went missing and was later found dead.