The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) on Thursday promised to install all  the idle transformers in Agbara and Badagry communities in order to improve power supply in the area. The Managing Director and the CEO of EKEDC, Mr Adeoye  Fadeyibi,  gave the assurance at the virtual customer forum, created by the company to replace the town hall meeting usually held with customers and community leader representatives. Lagos facilitates settlement of N1.242bn debt among residents via mediation Fadeyibi, who was represented by Mr Sunday Oyejide, the company’s Business Manager, Agbara District Unit, said the meeting was in continuation of its normal town hall engagement usually held to feel the pulse of the community on its service delivery. “On transformers that were not connected, either donated by the state government, local government or community efforts, we have compiled them and forwarded same for necessary actions. “The project department of EKEDC will take up the issue of idle transformers and address it promptly. “My advice is that all communities that have idle transformers should attach the receipts of purchase or letter of allocations or evidence of right ownership that they are meant to be used within your community to EKEDC for necessary action,” he said. Fadebiyi appealed to customers who were on analogue meters to apply for prepaid meters through its Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) process. “Prepaid meter  is the solution to billing and everyone should endeavour to key into MAP process of getting it. “You either download the form from  our website or get the form from our office, complete and submit for processing. “After that,  you will be communicated on the mode of payment and after 14 days the meter will be installed,” he said. On the issue of high billing, the managing director said that efforts were being made for the  installation of statistical meters on all the transformers that would  ensure adequate billing. He advised the customers on estimation to equally manage energy by ensuring no light was on during the day. “Please, let us encourage our people to come for adjustments and key in for prepaid meters as a means  of  putting ends to billing issues,” he said. Fadebiyi urged the customers within the network to pay promptly their monthly bills. “All these equally depend on revenue we are able to get back from the system. “In some areas, their collection efficiency is nothing to write home about and the business can not be run at a loss,” he said. He urged communities within the zone to create WhatsApp group on electricity and add EKEDC so that issues could be discussed without delays in fault clearing. “I want to appreciate everyone here for their time and data spent for this meeting,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that earlier, some customers in Agbara and Badagry communities had complained of idle transformers bought by government and through  community efforts, estimated billings and outage in their areas. Mr Salami Idris, the Chairman, Iroko Epa Community Development Area in Apa, Badagry, urged the management of EKEDC to energise the transformer given to the community by the Lagos State Government. He said the transformer had been lying  idle for 10 years without being energised,  adding that over 120 registered customers living in the area were not enjoying power supply. Also, Mr Adeleke Raheem, the Secretary Itesiwaju Iledu CDA in Araromi, Badagry , said the community had been suffering from load shedding since 2016. “The Chairman of Olorunda Local Council Development Area, Mr Samson Olatunde, gave us a new transformer but  the staff of EKEDC had refused to install it for us,” he said. Mr Tunde Genty, Secretary, Ayedotun CDA , Atiporomeh area, Badagry, said they had problems with estimated billings, insufficient transformers and prepaid meters. Gentry called on the management of EKEDC to address these issues so that the community would enjoy power supply. (NAN)