The Enugu state Primary Healthcare Development Agency (ENS-PHCDA), says it has trained 1,875 health workers on COVID-19 case identification and response to stem the further spread of the pandemic. The four-day step down training started on June 11, was organised by ENS-PHCDA in collaboration with National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). Executive Secretary of the agency, Dr. George Ugwu, told newsmen on Sunday in Enugu, that the training was designed to expose health workers and volunteers to all aspects of COVID-19 knowledge and what they were expected to do. He disclosed that the training exercise was conducted simultaneously at senatorial districts, local government and ward levels in the 17 council areas in the state. The secretary noted that participants of the exercise were drawn from PHC centres, private hospitals, traditional birth attendants, immunisation officers, traditional and community leaders as well as 10 volunteer focal persons from each ward. According to him, the first three days of the training exercise was for the PHC workers while the fourth day was for private hospitals, local traditional birth, traditional and community leaders, volunteer focal persons, among others. “Participants were availed the NPHCDA COVID-19 response manuel for PHCs; while the training was based on most of the things contained in the manual, as well as inputs from WHO and other partners. “The step down training to the health workers and volunteers, at the ward and village level became imperative to deepen the general health workers knowledge on COVID-19 suspected cases, identification, temporary isolation and quick referral to the state’s COVID-19 task force. “This training is also important to raise well-guided health workers at the grassroots that will help fight the COVID-19 pandemic and take informed quick actions as the virus enters community transmission stage,’’ he said. Ugwu lauded Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for supporting the ENS-PHCDA activities and programmes, adding that the gesture had made the agency up its activities to achieve enviable successes at zonal and national health ranking. He also commended the NPHCDA, World Health Organisation (WHO) and other partners for providing fund and supervision of the training exercise. A participant, Mr. Maximus Chibuoke, who is also the head of department health in Enugu South Local Government Area, said that the training had made much impact and checked phobia on COVID-19 among the participants.