…TSIEC chairman describes claims as frivolous, incorrect  The major opposition political party in Taraba State, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has given a 24 hour ultimatum to the Taraba State Independent Electoral Commission (TSIC) to rescind what was described as their purported rescheduled local government elections slated for 30th June, 2020. The APC Chairman in the state, Bar.  Ibrahim Tukur El-Sudi made the assertion while briefing newsmen at Party Secretariat in Jalingo. But in a swift reaction, the Chairman of TSIEC, Philip Duwe, has described as “frivolous and incorrect” the call by the APC that the timetable for the forthcoming local government council election be withdrawn. El-Sudi had alleged that the APC in the state was not formerly served with the letter, written by TSIEC on the 25th February, 2020 informing them of a time table for the local government elections. According to El-Sudi, despite the lack of proper service of the time table on APC, the party started preparation for the election not until the State Deputy Governor, Haruna Manu announced locking down the state as a result of Covid-19 pandemic. He said during the period of the lockdown, movements were restricted, no campaigns, no sale of forms, no opportunity for screening of aspirants for conduct of primary elections, awaiting the main elections with their opponents. “All these activities are provided for in either the Taraba State Local Government Law 2000 (as amended) or by the Taraba State Independent Electoral Commission Law 2002 (as amended)”, “We have written the Taraba State Independent Electoral Commission given them 24hrs to rescind their purported rescheduled of the local government elections slated for 30th June, 2020. “They have not done the needful as required by our laws, it is therefore, unfair and unjust to come up with a new date when they did not make any statement on the earlier time table which was taken by events. They need to draw up a new time table for adequate preparations and compliance with the electoral laws,” said El-Sudi. Taraba APC boss added, “If TSIEC does not rescind or withdraw its new time table, we will have no other option but to refuse participating in the election but will file an action in a competent Court of law to challenge their electoral activities. He also called for the immediate removal of Philip Duwe as TSIEC boss accusing him of bias, unfairness and deceitfulness in the conduct of affairs of elections. Responding, TSIEC Chairman, Chief (Dr.)  Philip Duwe described the allegations by APC Chairman, El-Sudi as baseless and unfounded saying they do not hold water. Philip Duwe said, TSIEC had a meeting with Inter Party Advisory Committee (IPAC) at its Secretariat in Jalingo on 6th June, 2020. He said the discussion was on how to go about the Local government elections already scheduled before the outbreak of corona virus that caused locking down the entire state. Duwe, a two time former commissioner, said “for someone to accuse me of cheating, I think the allegation is libelous and should be proven in the law court. What a hell is that? Cheating who?” Duwe said the statement by the APC chairman was a calculated attempt to create animosity in the state, which he warned, will only drag the state backward. He explained that preparations for the local government election had started since February, based on the initial time table, before the state announced lockdown. “Then, on June 6, the TSIEC had a meeting with the Inter Party Advisory Committee (IPAC) during which 15 of the 17 registered political parties in the state agreed that the election should hold on June 27. We decided that June 30 would be the ideal date for the election,” he said. Duwe recalled that the opposition had threatened to go to court if the local government council caretaker committees were not dissolved and elections conducted.