Meet Oyin aka known as Hannah Guendemir: The multitalented Afrobeats singer-songwriter girl from Germany is currently collaborating with established Afrobeats artists in Nigeria and planning to release some of these music projects soon. Before the worldwide Corona Pandemic put the worldwide music industry on hold, Oyin’s first produced; written and performed single To Se Daada trended in Nigeria and made her number one on Africa’s largest streaming platform in Nigeria and number 25 in whole Africa. Oyin started to write songs and experiment with beats and sounds when she was a teenager. Nonetheless, years passed until she stepped for the first time into a professional music studio. Meanwhile living in Portugal, where she had moved over to pursue a professional music career, she started to intuitively create African pop instrumentals with the technical support of a sound engineer. Blown away by her musical and creative composing abilities, he encouraged her to go deeper into audio production and sound engineering. Since then, Oyin quickly connected with well-known international music producers who acknowledged her for her music creating talent. Oyin’s voice is both subtle and appealing. Although her vocal range allows her to stray into very high notes, her ability to inflect and bringing it down to her lower range, creates a soothing and sensual sound that is hard to resist and characterizes her singing style. Oyin’s music contains elements of Afrobeats, Afrohouse, Afropop, Kizomba, Pop and RnB. “I fell in love with Afrobeats even before I knew that it was called like that: The drums, the sizzling and flirting arrangement of traditional African instruments blending with Jazz and Pop, always maintaining a pinch of untamable energy. I feel like the softness of my voice complements perfectly with it and adds a fresh and attractive flavor to the existing sound of Afrobeats.” At this point of her career, Oyin had to decide on which creative area she wants to focus. “As an independent female music artist trying to build up a sustainable career from scratch, I just realized at a certain point that I was becoming my own bottleneck trying to write and produce for others and for myself, plus building up and strengthening my artist brand and image every single day. I hope that I will be able to produce more music in the future again, but for now I decided to focus on being a songwriting music artist and entertainer.”