A Nigerian University student who was allegedly mocked for losing her virginity, has been linked to the gang-rape of her two female friends by 7 boys. Facebook user, Funke Adeyanju who shared the story on Facebook, said the incident occurred shortly after the rape victims arrived their friend’s cousin’s house to deliver a surprise birthday gift to her. According to Adeyanju, the girls are year one students of the University of lagos, between the ages of 18-19 years. She said the girls whose drinks were spiked before the sad incident took place, have been taken to a hospital in Ikeja while the male suspects have been arrested. Adeyanju wrote; Parents we need God’s intervention” This morning at about 09:15hrs the security men in my estate rushed to my gate to alert me of an ongoing crime that is being perpetrated. We rushed to the house and discovered that 7 boys were raping 2 girls. We caught them in the act all pants down, the girls have been beaten and perhaps drugged. We called in the police immediately. What I saw is not forgiveable, one of the girls was slightly burnt with a hot pressing iron because she refused to submit. Before police arrived, myself and other excos present interrogated the criminal boys and the girls in seperate rooms, what we discovered was shocking. These girls left their parents homes in Gbagada GRA this morning to come and give their female friend a surprise birthday gift at her cousin’s house not knowing their friend actually set them up. When they got there they were offered Chivita orange juice laced with marijuana and codeine, immediately the drug started taking its toll on the girls the boys pounced on them. We’ve been able to get the girl who arranged this crime….her reasons: I wanted to know if they were truly virgins, that they always mock her since she lost her virginity All these girls are year 1 students of Unilag and are 18 and 19 years of age. As parents, I want to encourage us to scrutinize the friends our sons and daughters keep. So many evil these days. The boys have been arrested, the girls parents have been notified and the girls moved to a medical facility (hospital name withheld) on Bank Anthony Way, Ikeja. We need to continually educate these kids to avoid things like this.