The Plateau State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has warned those bent on destroying the party to refrain from doing so or faced sever consequences. The PDP describing those who are fuelling anti party activities in the State as rebels, also drew their attention to the party constitution which has stipulated guidelines in dealing with airing members. APC has done well for South East, says Igbokwe Chairman of the Caretaker Committee in the State, Hon. Gwott Chocho, stated this in a statement made available to our correspondent in Jos on Tuesday, insisting that there is “no faction in the Plateau PDP”. According to the statement, “the attention of the State Working Committee of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Plateau State has been drawn to the activities of some members of the Party who have set out on a mission to mislead innocent members of the public by parading themselves as caretaker committee of the party. “For the avoidance of doubt, let me quickly warn this group led by Exodus Pyennap Nandom, that its claims are not only baseless, but are hugely criminal and amount to unmitigated anti party crusade, being an affront on duly constituted authority. “Upon the expiration of the tenure of the elected State Executive of the Party on May 10.2020, and given the exigencies unleashed by the deadly pandemic of Covid-19, the National Secretariat of the Party, after due and clear consultations with the National Executive Committee, NEC, and the Party’s Board of Trustees, BoT, approved and directed that the defunct Exco resume hence as caretaker committee in most states of the federation pending the conduct of state congresses to elect substantive and tenured leadership of the party”. Chocho added that both the NEC and BoT endorse, recognize, and regard the caretaker interim arrangements in the various States, and have been cooperating and referring to the committees in all issues relating to, or affecting the Party. “There has been no occasion or incident of any stakeholders of the Party meeting and naming any committee headed by Exodus Pyennap Nandom as its chairman. “The National Secretariat of our great Party has since communicated the new status quo with the relevant security agencies in the State, and, so far, our state secretariat has been enjoying their cooperation and warm working relationship”. However laying credence to Chocho’s statement, the member representing Jos South/Jos East federal Constituency, Hon. Dachung Bagos, disowned and denounced the claims of any other group  and only confirmed Chocho as the PDP Chairman in the State.