Warr i(Delta)  –  The Police in Warri, Delta, have apprehended a cleric over an alleged rape of a 19-year-old girl (name withheld). The Warri Area Commander of the Police Force, Mohammed Garba, disclosed this to newsmen on Monday in Warri. Garba said the suspect, (name withheld) was nabbed on June 5, adding that he had since then been in their custody at the “A Division”, Warri. According to the commander, the cleric was apprehended following a complaint lodged by the mother of the victim. Garba explained that the mother of the victim was a worshipper in the church where her daughter was allegedly molested. Garba quoted the mother of the victim to have said that the pastor had a dream that death was hovering in their house and for peace to reign, she should bring her daughter for prayers and deliverance. Osinbajo to commission Dukia – Heritage Bank gold and precious metal buying centres “The woman brought the lady to the church for the pastor to conduct the prayers and deliverance. “I think what really happened was that the pastor drugged that lady and raped her. I personally took the lady to the hospital because she was in coma for two days. “We were looking for the pastor for the past two weeks. I later used my detectives to trace and get him arrested. I am charging him to court now. “This is somebody that I nabbed on Friday and he has been in cell, now I am charging him to court,” Garba said. The area commander alleged that there were evidences to prove that the pastor raped the girl. “We have the pictures. I took the girl to the doctor and her private part was examined, so we have everything to charge this man to court,” he said. However, in a swift reaction, the pastor said that the allegation was not true. “She came to church on that May 20. The mother brought her for deliverance and I prayed for her in front of the alter in the presence of three people. “Immediately after the prayer, she left at about 12 noon. She later came back at about 5:00 pm with policemen and crowd, saying this is the man that raped her,” the pastor said. Narrating her ordeal to newsmen, the victim alleged that the pastor said she had a relationship with an internet fraudster, and that the fraudster used handkerchief to wipe off her private part for ritual purposes. “The pastor gave me Olive oil to insert into my private part, and also gave me some to drink, before asking me to undress, lie on the mat, and he started having carnal knowledge of me,” she said. (NAN)