Deputy Governor of Ondo state, Agboola Ajayi on Sunday said he is ready to join other qualified aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to participate in the primary election fixed for July 22 to elect the party’s flag bearer. Ajayi confirmed this after he resigned his membership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the Apio ward II in his Kiribo hometown of Ese Odo Local Government Area of Ondo state before decamping to the opposition PDP. He also denied been adopted as the sole governorship candidate of the PDP by the National Working Committee (NWC) as being speculated in the state. The deputy governor, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Babatope Okeowo in Akure, said he will not fall into any blackmail by agents of government trying to create enmities among members of the PDP. “The PDP has not imposed any candidate on the party in Ondo state and the party is also not interested in imposition of candidates for elections. “The deputy governor will go to the primary with other qualified members of the party, who have shown interest in the governorship ticket of the party. “Even as a democrat, Ajayi will not subscribe to any imposition of candidate and would not do anything to undermine the peaceful atmosphere that attracted him to the PDP” Earlier, Mr. Ajayi said although he has left the APC but he was still the deputy governor of the state, and would not resign his position. He explained that he got the people’s mandate to become the present deputy governor and will not resign his position as the number two of the state. “My people that voted for me did not ask me to resign, so I remain the deputy governor of this state. I was duly elected as a deputy governor. “It is a painful thing that I am leaving the APC, but there is time for everything. As a Nigerian, I have the fundamental freedom to belong to any party or group. “Like I said earlier, everybody all over the world knows why I left the APC. Some hours ago, you all know what happened to me at the Government House, but I am a man of peace,” he added. The PDP ward Chairman, Festus Oboro, who received Ajayi back to the party, said his coming would further strength the PDP in the state ahead of the governorship election. Ajayi is expected to join other eight aspirants who have already shown interest and collected nomination forms to slug it out for the governorship ticket of the opposition PDP in the October 10 election.