As part of his efforts on the rehabilitation of roads in Somolu Local Government Area of Lagos State, to fulfill part of his electoral promises, the Chairman of Somolu Local Government, Hon. Abdul Hamed Salawu has rolled up his sleeves to ensure more job is done, this is as he admonished road users to cooperate with government in delivering good roads and always protect government’s projects. The chairman according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Oseni Owolabi Ajimomuya, said government’s projects, when delivered, belongs to the people to use and protect, adding that cooperation of the community and residents of areas where projects is ongoing is needed to deliver good projects which will eventually belong to such community. While analysing the economic values of the ongoing Bolaji Omupo street, the multiple awards winning council helmsman said the road has been in a dilapidated situation for over 10 years, but will receive a new look in the interest of residents, motorists and other road users. The road, when completed, will help to decongest the traffic gridlock on Shipeolu and Pedro roads, especially for road users plying Pedro from Gbagada enroute Yaba, Ebute Metta and Surulere. According to the Supervisor for Works and Infrastructure, Alhaji Kabir Raji, the 586meter Bolaji Omupo street will be completed in few days, as work is also in top gear at the ongoing road construction on Ogatimirin, Abdulahi, Ibiyemi, Okujobi, Bashua, Eton Alaiye, Olasode and Ajose roads. He said some of the roads rehabilitated by the Hon. Abdul Hamed Salawu-led administration of Somolu Local Government include but not limited to Ige, Onafowokan, Bailey, Babayemi, Ogunnaike, Adedoyin, Eyo, Shipeolu Link, Awe, Animashaun, Ojo, Akeju, Durosimi roads. The supervisor was in company of Engr. Gbolamiga Dawodu, Council Engineer and Engr. Abiodun Isikalu as the trio supervised and motivated the workers on site for the interlocking stones arrangement. On the ongoing road rehabilitation at Fakorede Street as supervised by the Lagos State Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, the Executive Chairman said it is as a result of the sensitivity of the proactive governor of Lagos State, “Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu who has promised to always listen to us whenever we cry for help and that is what we are  seeing on Fakorede Street and the clearing of the system 2 Canal in Somolu, Governor Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat are great gifts from ruling APC to Lagosians,” the chairman said.