A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirant in the race for the October 10 governorship election in Ondo state, Dr. Bode Ayorinde, has declared that his ambition is not threatened by the coming of the newly defected deputy governor of the state, Ajayi Agboola into the race. He said he is in the race for the PDP gubernatorial ticket for real as he expressed confidence in the ability of the leadership of the party to conduct a free, fair and credible shadow election come July 20. Ayorinde spoke with journalists after submitting his expression of interest and nomination forms at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday. He said all the party’s aspirants have equal chances of emerging PDP flag bearer adding that no one has preference over others “There is no heat in Ondo and there is no one looking so good to pick any ticket. The party leadership has promised a level playing ground. They promised that the primary will be a free, fair and transparent primary. “That anyone is looking so good to pick the ticket, no one is sure. I am in the race for a free and fair primary, and the way you laid your bed so you will lay on it. Also, PDP of today is the most democratic party and all of us seem to be very sure that our leaders will conduct a free, fair and transparent primary. “As to my colleague, deputy governor, Hon. Agboola joined the party, the more, the merrier. So no one is apprehensive about it. He met us on the field, he will play his card and whoever wins we will all come together and win Ondo state for PDP”. “In any  case, nine aspirants are not too many for a position of governor. It means PDP is becoming stronger, there is hope that PDP will produce the next governor. In a state with a population of almost four  million, nine aspirants can not be too much for the position of governor. Ondo state will be governed by PDP by the grace of God”. Speaking on his chances of clinching the party’s ticket, he said he is the only aspirant from the Ondo North Senatorial District . He said “as to the chance of picking the ticket, I see myself as the candidate of the party, I have transverse the entire 18 local government, 203 wards and this is the first time Ondo north senatorial district is asking for the ticket of PDP since 1999 and leaders are conscious of that. “Not only that, but other zones have also done two terms. Even though the current governor is APC, we have just spent one term in Ondo north. And leaders in Ondo north are resolute to allow PDP to complete the second term. I am confident that by the grace of God I will pick PDP’s ticket and become the next governor of Ondo state”. If given the mandate to govern Ondo state, Ayorinde said he has a blueprint  to turn the state from a civil service state to an industrialized one. ” I promise my people every local government will have a bid industry to provide jobs to our people,  create wealth and alleviate poverty. So that is the only interest I have. So if you ask me, agenda one is industrialization, number two is industrialization and number three is industrialization”, he said.