The Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, oba Ewuare II, has thrown what appeared like a punch at the All Progressives Congress (APC) suspended National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, saying; godfatherism and consensus candidate must be eradicated from the politics of Edo State. In a statement on Thursday, the revered monarch said these two “political vices” are antithetical to the fundamental basis of democracy. The State Governor, Godwin Obaseki has been at loggerheads with Oshiomhole, over what he tagged as “godfatherism”. Osagie Ize-Iyamu, a governorship aspirant in Edo, is reported to be backed by Adams Oshiomhole, suspended national chairman of APC. The traditional ruler denied reports suggesting that his palace prevailed on some aspirants to step down “for a particular candidate in the upcoming primaries of a certain political party”. “The palace totally denounces this evil speculation and condemns those that originated it,” the statement read. “His Royal Majesty, Omo N‘Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpoiokpolo, the Oba of Benin has said times without number that the Palace of the Oba of Benin does not get involved in partisan politics. The three prayer points of the Oba of Benin in the democratic process have always been as follows; that God and our ancestors should give us a governor that will accord respect to traditional institutions, develop this state and provide food on the table for the masses. “The Omo N’Oba strongly advises that in order to eschew recurrent socio political conflict that seems to constantly ravish the state, making Edo people a laughing stock to the rest of the country in how politicians manage the affairs of Edo people, our Edo political actors must eradicate the twin evil political vices of Godfatherism and consensus candidate. READ ALSO PDP condemns arrest of CUPP Spokesman, Ugochinyere “These two practices seem antithetical to the very fundamental basis of democracy. In other words this business of coercing aspirants to step down for another candidate for whatsoever reason is undemocratic, It will not augur well for the development of democratic process in Nigeria.”