The Managing Director of Lagos State Signage & Advertisement Agency (LASAA), Prince Demola Docemo has challenged outdoor advertising professionals operating in the state to be more creative and innovative in their products offerings. Prince Decemo, who gave this charge in Lagos, said only creative and innovative Out-of-Home agencies that have unique selling points would enjoy concession and rebates by the agency as a way of encouraging and supporting their business. The LASAA boss, who made this disclosure during the live Online Summit organized by the Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria (OAAN), said the majority of billboards are vacant in Lagos metropolis because OOH practitioners have not introduced so much innovative products to attract advertisers to the sector. READ ALSO:  While appreciating the fact that the players have been making their impact felt with contemporary investments on technology and billboards products in the state, he enjoined them to do more so as to get robust support from the state’s Out-of-Home regulatory agency. It will be recalled that OAAN, the umbrella body of all registered OOH companies organised a Webinar Summit with the Theme: “OOH Business & Emerging Realities”, and had participants and discussants across the integrated marketing communication sectors. Speaking further on the challenges facing the sector post-COVID-19 pandemic, the LASAA boss said that there were myriads of opportunities for OOH practitioners if only they could sit back and reflect on their business strategies with a view to revamping the industry. Specifically, he advised the practitioners to invest in new technology, research and development, noting that the current regime of digital advertising will compete and challenge them. The LASAA boss, who decried the negative fall-outs of Covid-19 pandemic, revealed that OOH sector had experienced serious disruptions in the last few weeks of the crisis, adding that this development had badly affected revenue accruing to the agency. He was of the view that despite the lull in the sector, which recorded a whopping $125 million growth in 2019 and boasted of over 100,000 workforce, the industry could still be repositioned to enable it to contribute its own quota to the national economic growth. However, he highlighted some of the new initiatives that have been put together by the agency under his administration to ease business and boost the fortunes of OOH practitioners. These, he said, include a reduction in the number of visitation to LASAA office for business transactions as the regulatory agency have moved the majority of its operations online, i.e. registration and application as well as e-payments; online activation for reconciliation and concessions and deployment of new technology for application amongst several others. The regulatory Chieftain, however, advised advertisers in the country not to give up on advertising their products, observing that they should know and remember that there is always a great opportunity in the midst of every crisis. He stated that advertisers should pre-pay for adverts so as to cushion the operational cost of business on OOH companies. He, nonetheless, canvassed for mergers and acquisitions, partnerships and collaborations amongst OAAN member agencies, arguing that some OOH sites have remained vacant for lack of business because they are not strategic. He also enjoined members of the association to restore trust and confidence in the industry as such would guarantee them requisite goodwill and support by all relevant stakeholders.