Former Governor of old Anambra state and founding member of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Jim Nwobodo, has insisted that the south- east geo political zone of the country must produce Nigeria’s president of Igbo extraction. He noted that in the interest of justice, equity and fair play, the political parties, the electorate and various parts of the country should look the way of the zone during the election. Nwobodo, posited that anyone who do not believe in the Igbo presidency project come 2023, do not wish Nigeria well. He said: “2023 will be the turn of the south -east to produce Nigeria’s president. So, l am calling on other parts of the country to support the project.” The Enugu state born octogenarian politician, stated this Monday at his Amechi, Awkunanaw country home in Enugu South Local Government Area, while receiving a chieftaincy title ‘eziokwu bu ndu,’ meaning (truth is life) bestowed on him by the traditional ruler of Amuri Ancient Kingdom, Igwe Charles Nwoye. According to him, as a nation existing under a tripartite arrangement of the north, east and west, it would be proper for other segments of the country to throw their full weight behind the south-east zone in its quest to occupy the highest office in the land because it is the only geo-political zone that has not had its own fare share of the nation’s governance. “For the interest of justice, equity and fair play, the south- east geo political zone of the country deserves to produce the next president that would succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the next political dispensation,” he stated. He however, expressed appreciation to the monarch for the honour done him, stating that the title truly reflects what has been his guiding principle in life. “”I will continue to cherish and value this recognition because truth remains life indeed. And it’s coming from a nice and well respected traditional ruler in Enugu state. “I will continue to stand by the truth all the days of my life because that is life. I thank Igwe Nwoye sincerely for this honour” he stated. Presenting the title certificate and other regalia to Nwobodo, Igwe Nwoye, who performed the exercise via the crown prince of Amuri Kingdom, who is also Enugu state Chairman of the All progressive Congress (APC), Dr. Ben Nwoye, said the recognition was borne out of the recipient’s contributions to the development of the state and his community during his days as governor, particularly in the areas of education and youth empowerment. Nwoye, said the Amuri Community holds Nwobodo in very high esteem going by his antecedents.