*He account for N350bn revenue Former Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Pally Iriase on Friday, applauded the All Progressives Congress (APC) screening committee for disqualifying incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state from the Edo gubernatoriak race and for saving the nation’s democracy. Iriase, a former deputy speaker and former secretary to the state government in Edo state, hailed the screening committee for towing the line of democracy not minding whose ox is gored. In a chat with journalists in Abuja, the former two term lawmaker said:“Coincidentally, today is June 12, the day that the APC screening committee sent the right signals that nobody is above the law and there’s nothing like a sacred cow again in our great party, APC. “As I speak with you, there is spontaneous jubilation in several parts of Edo state, including the Government House. “The screening committee did a wonderful job after screening all the credentials of Obaseki and discovered his HSC claim, and his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) discharged certificate had k-legs. “Imagine, they discovered the corky fellow had only three credits in WASC and was governing an educationally advanced Edo state. “So many discrepancies were seen in his curriculum vitae, but visibly seen was his NYSC and his claims to have graduated in 1979 without providing evidence of how he qualified for a degree programme. “The committee has proven that truly there are still men of courage and honour in our party as no man is above God as showcased by Obaseki, who has been destroying properties of perceived political enemies in Edo state. “Here’s a governor who applied the doctrine of crabology and jackboots politics in Edo state. “He sent 14 lawmakers out of the state legislative chambers for one full year not minding the families of such lawmakers who must have spent fortunes to win elections. “For almost four years, he collected over N350 billion from the centre and as internally generated revenue without anything meaningful on ground to show in Edo state. “Obaseki must give account of how he expended Edolites money as we progress to a new and a better Edo state by the grace of God.”