Coalition Against Killings In Northern Nigeria (CAKIN) have said on Monday that they will shut down your government in 14 days if President Muhammadu Buhari does not stop killings in the north. The youth group made this known in a statement after a meeting they said that: “The Coalition from today, June 15, 2020, give a 14-day ultimatum to federal government to end killings in the entire States of the North. After the expiration of this ultimatum, any reported case of killing will leave us with no option than to mobilize citizens to take to streets until the government is shut down”. The group in a statement jointly signed by six different, namely  Isa Abubakar for Northern Youth Council Of Nigeria, Yerima Shettima for Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, Yusuf Idris Amoke for Northern Anti Corruption Front, Mohammed Salihu Danlami for Arewa Youth Assembly, Murtala Abubakar for  Joint Action Committee Of Northern Youth Associations,  Dr. Idris Mohammed  for Cups and  Gambo Gujungu  for Arewa Youth Forum also called for the  immediately sacking of the service chiefs  and that all security personnels who are living above their legitimate earnings should be investigated and prosecuted immediately. The youths also demanded that security votes by the state governors be abolished without second thought. 1. It is on a sad note that this Coalition wishes to remind the Federal Government and Government at all levels, that the primary responsibility of government anywhere particularly the one that was democratically elected by voters is to protect the lives and property of citizens. 2. Recall that, Nigerians particularly Northerners voted President Muhammad Buhari enmass to power in 2015 in anticipations that as a former military head of state, and a retire General he is positioned to deal decisively with all forms of threats to the security of our people, particularly challenges of Boko Haram that had caused hardship and unprecedented destruction of lives and economy activities. Alas, five years into President Muhammad Buhari’s tenure instead of reducing insecurity, it has escalated thereby exposing great numbers of our people to avoidable deaths and lost of property in a manner that history has never witnessed before. 3. As patriotic citizens, it is our constitutional duty to raise voices and call attention to the killings that is taking place across States of the Northern regions on a daily basis and mobilize citizens on how to constructively engage government at all levels and make demands to end the killings. 4. The coalition is saying enough is enough and an end must be put to the mindless killings of our people particularly in the villages, and the nonchalant attitude displayed by government and its agencies to the plights of people going through horrific experience in the hands of criminals that seems to have overwhelmed our security agencies. 5. Consequently, the Coalition Against Killings In Northern Nigeria (CAKIN) wishes to put forward the following demands i. The coalition demands unequivocally that President Muhammad Buhari as commander in chief should immediately relief the service chiefs of their duties. ii Equally, the coalition demands that all security personnels who are living above their legitimate earnings should be investigated and prosecuted immediately. iii. The coalition further demands that security votes by the state governors be abolished without second thought. iv. The coalition strongly supports the idea community policing and calls for its immidiate implementation Nation wide. V. The coalition reiterates here that enough is enough and it can no longer tolerate mindless killings of innocent citizens of the northern Nigeria without the government seems to be doing much to stop it. The Coalition from today June, 15th 2020 give a 14 day ultimatum to federal government to end killings in the entire States of the north. After the expiration of this ultimatum, any reported case of killings will leave the coalition with no option than to mobilize citizens to take to streets until the government is completely shot down.