A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi state, Captain Muhammad Bala Jibrin (rtd) has called on President Muhamnadu Buhari, national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and good spirited leaders to save the party from another loss in the Edo governorship election as a result of recklessness of APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole with power. Captain Jibrin who was APC governorship aspirant in Bauchi State in 2019 said the intervention of party stalwats is urgently required at suchva critical stage when both Edo and Ondo governorship elections draw near to prevail upon the Oshiomhile – led National Working Committee (NWC) to allow the supremacy of APC constitution in the processes that lead to chosen the party’s flag -bearers. He accused Oshiomhole of engaging in not only abuse of office but is trampling on the APC Constitution simply to perpetuate impunity and injustice just because he holds the office of National Chairman. The former Deputy National Auditor of the APC during the Chief Bisi Akande-led National Interim Management Committee said it is unfortunate that the NWC under the national chairman has been usurping the powers and roles of the Natiinal Executive Committee (NEC) in taking sime critical decisions in the affairs of the party. Providing instances, Jibrin in a statement at the weekend said “the APC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) not the National Working Committee (NWC) has the final say on the mode of the primary election. Article 20 (IV) – Procedure for Nomination of Candidates (E) states: “Without prejudice to Article 20(u) and (iii) of this Constitution, the National Working Committee shall subject to the approval of the National Executive Committee make Rules and Regulations for the nomination of candidates through primary elections”. This, he said, shows that the powers to determine the mode/type of election to be used for the nomination of candidates rests with NEC and not NWC, or at least must get the approval of NEC. He stated furrher that “so, the truth is that Edo State APC chapter was correct to say that only the NEC has the final say on the matter and not the NWC. “We would recall that on August 29, 2018, the APC’s NEC delegated this function to NWC and the State chapters of the party only for the purpose of Osun and Ekiti primary elections and not in perpetuity. Its resolution on this was: “That the State Executive Committee (SEC) shall in consultation with critical Stakeholders in each state identify and agree among themselves the mode of the primary election to be applied in their state”. “Therefore, when we take the constitutional provision, and the decision of NEC together, it is evident that the NWC has no power whatsoever on these matters until they go back to NEC. However, both were flagrantly disregarded and disobeyed by the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole”. Accusing Oshiomhole of grand plan to manipulate the Efo governorship primaries, he said “in his bid to continue with illegalities and acts of impunity, which he perpetrated on a large scale during the November 2018 APC primary elections, the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, without conscience and sense of fairness and justice wrote a letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the APC had decided to adopt Direct Primary for the Edo State APC governorship. “He did this three day ahead of the meeting of NWC that was supposed to decide on the matter. Under normal circumstance, this immoral action is enough to remove him from office because it is not just an infraction but a desecration of anything just and fair. The NWC members are also culpable on that. “It is important to note that the APC Constitution did not define or explain the meaning of a direct primary election. Article 20 ii(a) stated that direct primary would be used in the nomination of councillorship election. “The provision stated: “Nomination of Candidates for Councillorship shall be by a direct primary election conducted at the Ward level. For the purpose of this primary election, Party members in every Ward shall vote byopen-secret ballot for the candidates of their choice where there is no consensus, provided that where a candidate has emerged by consensus for an elective position, a vote of “yes” or “no” should be called to ensure that it was not an imposition which could breed discontent and crisis.” “Therefore, we can say that the contemplation of the drafters of the APC Constitution is that direct primary means allowing all card-carrying party members to vote in a primary election. “However, there are two issues that unless addressed the whole exercise will be subjected to abuse and manipulation, which is the clear intention of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole”. “Unless Adams Oshiomhole has an agenda to weaken APC and lowers its esteem before millions of Nigerians, it is inexplicable that he remains at the centre of all the party’s crisis that has engulfed the state chapters of the Party since November 2018. From Zamfara to Ogun, from Imo to Rivers, from Bauchi, Adamawa to now Edo, you can see his hands and his self-centred tendencies visibly. “Rather than become a unifying factor, Adams Oshiomhole has become the most divisive party chairman in the history of party politics in Nigeria. Because of the flagrant violation of the Party’s Constitution by Adams Oshiomhole, the APC has now become a shadow of its former self”. According to Jibrin, all well-meaning Nigerians will like to see President Buhari complete his term peacefully and leave behind a legacy of robust party politics, real democracy, democratic institution and popular participation of citizens, however, it seems, Adams Oshiomhole will not allow that. Calling on all well-meaning party leaders to take the necessary action before the APC scatters, he said “If the APC is to survive and institutionalize itself, as President Buhari envisioned during the last NEC meeting, party leaders must wake up. We cannot continue to allow an Adams Oshiomhole to taint a worthy legacy of anti-corruption, good governance and infrastructural development put in place by our beloved President Muhammdu Buhari. “I hereby call on President Muhammadu Buhari, the National leader Bola Ahmed Tinubu and all other well-meaning leaders of APC. To come out and condemn these acts of impunity by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and save the party from imminent collapse. A word is enough for the wise”.