The House of Respresentaive has mandated all Rep. members to dress in black at the next sitting, in solidarity against the death of Uwa Omozuwa, Tina Ezekwe and other victims of rape and other fatal violence against women and girls in Nigeria. The House also urged the Inspector General of Police to immediately cause investigations into the cases of Uwa Omozuwa, Tina Ezekwe, the reported rape of minor in Jigawa State, as well as all other reported cases of violence against women, with a bid to bringing justice. The House asked the Federal Government to launch a more effective campaign against rape and other violence against women and girls. Girls and women who had died as a result of rape or Police brutality. Tina Ezekwe, a 16-year-old teenager, was allegedly killed by a trigger happy policeman on May 27, at Iyana-Oworo bus-stop in Lagos. The policeman was said to have shot dead the girl while attempting to arrest a bus driver. While Uwa Omozuwa, a 22-year-old student of the University of Benin,  was raped and murdered at a church in the town. Similarly, an 18-year-old girl, identified as Jennifer, was allegedly gang raped by five boys reported to be her friends in Kaduna state. The incident happened in Narayi, a community in Kaduna South Local Government Area. The boys were said to have carried out the action on the teenager after giving her a liquid content, said to be a mixture of alcohol and drugs. The  House lamented that  weak institutions, poor enforcement, poverty and unacceptable social practices contribute to the ugly increase in violence against Nigerian women and girls. The House said that findings show that an alarming 28% of Nigerian women aged between 25 – 29 years have experienced some form of physical violence against them, many of which remain unreported, were not prosecuted or could not secure conviction. On Wednesday 27th May 2020, Miss Uwa Omozuwa, aged 22, a 100 level student of University of Benin, who went to study in her Church hall, was found in a pool of her blood after being raped and harmed. She died soon afterwards. The House notes that Police in Jigawa State, on the 30th May 2020, arrested 11 men (including a 57-year-old man), who lured and raped a 12-year-old minor. The House notes that Police in Jigawa State, on the 30th May 2020, arrested 11 men (including a 57-year-old man), who lured and raped a 12-year-old minor. The House also noted that on the 28th May 2020, Miss Tina Ezekwe, aged 17, was shot and killed by two trigger-happy officers of the Nigerian Police Force in a most unprofessional manner, in Oworonshoki, Lagos. The House is concerned that a better government policy and legislative framework is required to stem the rising violence against women as well as improve and…support for women development. The House it is concerned that Nigeria lack a strong national response to support victims and survivors of violence against women and girls. 