The families of Bakare Odedina, Odebiyi; Seidu Ogunleye; Idowu Bakare and  Amoja Oseni  of Lagos State have congratulated the Governor of Lagos State,  Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu  for his successful one year in office just as it also commended the governor for the  peaceful  emergence of the new Oniru of Iruland. The families said they were not surprised at the achievements of  Sanwo-Olu in one year due to his resourcefulness  and  sense of purpose, saying God will grant him more good health to continue steering the ship of the state. The families also commended the governor for his approval of the nomination and appointment of Prince Gbolahan Lawal as the new Oba-Elect of Iruland saying “we are pleased with your approval of Lawal to succeed the late Oba Idowu Abiodun, former Oniru of Iruland who passed on in 2019 at the age of 82.” READ ALSO: Pro-Buhari group slams PDP over charge to its Senators not to back Buhari’s new borrowing plan The families pleaded with Governor Sanwo-Olu  to use the occasion of his successful one year in office   to release  their land situated at Olokonla in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the state. In a media release issued on Thursday, the families said they humbly appeal to His Excellency, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the release and excision of their land situated at Olokonla,  Ogo Mbo Road in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. According to the release issued by the families, the land which is 48,297 Hectares is contained in a Composite Plan No HSL/LA/COM/2083/02/2017. The Families said they had earlier on July 3, 2018, through their counsel,  Omotayo Aransiola & Co-written an appeal letter to the office of the former  Governor of Lagos State, Mr Ambode on the same subject matter but that the former Governor was unable to act on their letter of appeal before he left office in 2019. The families said in the release,” We hereby humbly appeal to His Excellency, Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu to please save our souls and let us drink from the milk of his kindness by releasing and excised our land situated at Olokonla, Ogo Mbo Road in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. “We wish His Excellency, a successful tenure and God’s guidance. Please assist us, the land is the only legacy our families can be proud of. Thanks and God bless.”