Director-General of the Musa Wada/Sam Aro Governorship Campaign Organization, Rep. Yusuf Tajudeen has hailed the Supreme Court verdict re-validating Musa Wada as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) guber candidate in the Kogi state governorship of November 2019. Rep. Yusuf, who is a serving member of the House of Representatives, made this known on Friday a few hours after the apex court verdict. The lawmaker in a statement he personally signed said:”With most gratitude to God Almighty, I wish to use this medium to congratulate Musa Wada, the entire leadership and members of the Peoples Democratic Party, over our victory at the Supreme Court this morning, regarding who is the actual winner of the party’s governorship primary. “By its ruling, the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the appeal court, which previously declared and affirmed Musa Wada, as the rightful and bonafide candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the November 2019 governorship election. “Indeed, the apex court’s judgement is a well-deserved victory for all and every member of our great party in Kogi state and the country. Regardless of the situation and circumstances that may have led to the long-drawn battle, which in some ways, threatened the unity and peace of our party. “I wish to state that as a big and happy family, the Kogi state PDP remains connected, and united as a solid and potent force in our resolute resolve to free Kogites from economic deprivation, serial and deepening hunger, derelict infrastructure and fast-decaying moral ethos and values. “I enjoin all party faithful and leaders across the length and breadth of Kogi state to know that there is no victor, no vanquished. Every party member from all communities, towns, local government areas, federal constituencies and senatorial districts are winners. “As we forge ahead in our firm bid to recover through the judiciary, the mandate that was freely given to Musa Wada and Sam Aro, and our great party, I solicit the collaboration of every one of us. “I charge every patriotic member of the Kogi PDP family to see the Supreme Court judgement as not only the turning point, but also the necessary tonic needed to spur us, deepen the party and re-invigorate members toward recovering our stolen mandate. “No doubt, we all will have a whole lot to benefit when the judiciary rights the wrong by declaring and returning Musa Wada, and the PDP as the rightful winner of the Kogi state governorship election.”