Several subscribers to Globacom have described its recently launched product, Glo Cloud, as a very handy tool for business and social networking in the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown period. Glo Cloud, which was launched in February, is a personal full quality storage application which allows subscribers to easily back up their digital life or activities such as photographs, videos, music and other documents. Subscribers who spoke on the development noted that the product has become very relevant now as a lot of digital content is being generated with many people working or studying online, while many more do online worship, share heavy videos and pictures as well as carry out other online businesses. With Glo Cloud, Glo data users can safely and privately store, back up automatically, retrieve and share their digital content from their cloud accounts. Glo Cloud users can store their digital contents up to the size of their subscriptions. “For instance, if a customer subscribed for 50GB, he or she will be able to store up to 50GB of content”, Glo explained at the launch of the product. A Lagos-based Glo subscriber, Bridget Apata, whose children use Glo Cloud, said the ease of storage that the app provides is unparalleled. “I have for long sought a telecommunications solution to my need to store salient files and documents. Glo Cloud app came handy,” she stated. Also speaking on the offer, Monica Johnson, a digital photographer who lives in Abeokuta, said she downloaded the Glo Cloud application from Google Play and then subscribed to the required pack by registering for the service. According to her, she has been using the app to edit photos with special effects and stickers as well as make movies from photos and albums. “In addition to these, the app enables me to access or retrieve my digital content anytime from all my devices,” she added. Iyke Kujemmi, a Lagos-based surveyor, said Glo Cloud has helped him store large files pertaining to his customers’ properties. “My children who engage in home schooling as a result of the coronavirus pandemic also store their lesson notes on my device using Glo Cloud,” he said. Idemudia Linus is another subscriber who commended the product. “Glo Cloud offers a fast and powerful search and creates automatic albums to rediscover or organize past memories. Albums can then be shared with others to invite them to add their photos”, he declared. On why it launched the service, Globacom said, “We are in a digital age where people develop loads and loads of personal, social and business content which they wish to store and retrieve whenever and wherever they want. Glo Cloud provides a safe and secure place to store such content. Apart from the problem of having enough storage space on phones or laptops, the Glo Cloud customer is assured of the safety of his documents or contents if he loses his phone or computer”.