WE now live in a depraved and disoriented society. Psychopaths are taking over. Our values and ethos are somersaulting. Our national ethics are crashing. The rise in cases of rape and other sexual offences in our society are pointing to the fact that criminals and depraved minds have gone a step beyond being berserk. Chinua Achebe using the opening stanza of William Butler Yeast’s poem The Second Coming, to derive the title of his 1959 epic novel Things Fall Apart, had written: Turning and turning in the widening gyre The falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart, the centre cannot hold Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world (Nigeria). One thing that has fallen apart is the absence of spirituality in the society. Whereas, we should be concerned with the human spirit, some of us are concerned with money or power rituals and depraved perversion. Sexual-based violence is now assuming an alarming proportion. Consequently, we should look at current cases of rape, sexual assault, defilement and other concomitant sexual offences beyond their ordinary meanings. Some if not most of these cases could be allegoric, that is, having stories or more issues within them. It is melancholic trying to decipher the pleasure derivable from inflicting pains on a fellow human being or against innocent souls through sexual depravity. It is also unfathomable to proffer any justification for having satanic relationship or dealings with minors. Equally indefensible is sexual relationship between individuals. A sexual relationship without the consent of a lady (18 years and above) or ‘with her consent, if the consent is obtained by force or by means of threats or intimidation of any kind or by fear of harm or by means of false and fraudulent representation . . . .’ amounts to rape. Our criminal and penal codes also deal with other sexual offences including sexual assault, defilement, sexual abuse, sodomy, child molestation, and sexual molestation- personal or online. There are prescribed punishments in the criminal and penal codes. However, more worrisome is the dimension the predators have gone. Because of the destruction and devastation of the society they now use their victims for ritual purposes through severance of their bodies, application of deadly objects and materials on victims, and taking of blood. These activities by predators go beyond rape, defilement, etc. These are practices undertaken by depraved minds looking for false or cheap money and or power. And, we must be concerned with this trend. It is double jeopardy- raping and maiming or killing the victim. In 1974, nurse Ann Wolbert Burgess and sociologist Lynda Lytle Holmstrong came up with Rape Trauma Syndrome (RTS) which is the psychological trauma experienced by a rape victim, if she survives the act. The trauma includes disruptions to normal physical, emotional, cognitive and interpersonal behaviour. Today, we see victims with cases of depression (mild or major) leading to withdrawal syndrome or suicide; substance disorder, anxiety disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, eating disorder, societal rejection, and other psychological or mental disorientation. How did we get to a point that rape and other sexual offences plus ritual and murderous acts are afflicting our society? These are beyond the ordinary. The executive, the legislature, the judiciary, the fourth estate of the realm; and indeed, our criminologists, psychologists, philosophers, law enforcement agencies and religious leaders all have a role to play in proffering a solution to this endemic development. We have negated our national values and ethos and emphasis is being placed on crude acquisition of power and money. Our core values of hard work, spirituality, character, honesty, reliability, open-mindedness, transparency, and respect for human lives are falling apart. The first step must be a national summit to address this endemic. Changing the narrative from victims of rape or sexual violence to survivors and if death is occasioned, referring them to heroines. Promotion of sexual and reproductive health and rights should be given impetus.  Campaign to engage the male gender and indeed, communities in critical reflections about norms and ethos relating to a decent society is desirable. It is also desirable to transform the norms and behaviour that underpin sexual and ritualistic abnormalities by working on unwholesome attachment to power and wealth, and stereotypes held by men. Above all, prevention is better than cure. The National Orientation Agency, the mainstream and social media, our mosques and churches, and Non-Governmental bodies must see this as clarion call. Advocacy, Sensitisation and other massive enlightenment programmes should be designed and implemented to exterminate or drastically reduce this endemic, otherwise, we are doomed. Meanwhile, our law enforcement agencies and the judiciary must be proactive and see the situation as a critical one calling for greater attention. While we holistically address this endemic, the provisions in our legal books should be pursued professionally and ethically. Sexual violence and rituals must not be allowed to destroy us.