A 25-year-old man, Wasiu Bankole, held by the police for raping a 70-year-old grandmother (name withheld), has attributed his action to the influence of alcohol. It was gathered that Bankole, had forced his way into the septuagenarian’s room around 8p.m. on June 2, at Abule Lemode area of Ijoko. Information had it that while the old woman tried to run from the young man, he held her down and had carnal knowledge of her against her will. The cry for help from the old woman attracted a neighbour who rushed to her room to find Bankole in the act. The rescuer hit the suspect with a stick, but unfortunately, the suspect fled the scene leaving his cloths, shoe and torchlight. Speaking on the incident, the Ogun Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, revealed that the suspect was arrested 24 hours after the matter was reported at the Agbado Police Division. Oyeyemi said: “ The suspect was arrested following a report by the victim who reported at Agbado division that while she was sleeping in her house at Abule Lemode area of Ijoko, at about 8 p. m., the suspect suddenly broke into her room, held her down and forcefully had carnal knowledge of her against her consent. “ The victim stated further that it was one of her neighbor who heard her screaming that came to rescue her by using a stick to hit the suspect on his back, consequence upon which he jumped off her and ran away leaving his clothes, shoe and torchlight inside her room. “ Upon the report, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Kuranga Yero, a Superintendent of Police (SP), dispatched his detectives to look for the suspect and bring him to justice. The detectives succeeded in getting him arrested. “ On interrogation, he confessed committing the crime but claimed to have acted under the influence of alcohol. The victim has been taken to the hospital for medical attention.” The State Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has also ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation Department for further investigation and diligent prosecution.