…Say it jeopardises public safety, urge FG to rescind decision …We have been operating outside seaports – SON Stakeholders have raised serious concerns over the Federal Government’s directive to eject the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) from the seaports. The stakeholders believe that the act will jeopardise public safety. In 2017, Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman, named the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA); Nigerian Customs Service (NCS); Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); Nigeria Police; Department of State Security (DSS); Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and Port Health as the approved agencies to operate at the nation’s seaports. Furthermore, she directed that other agencies not mentioned and approved to operate at the seaports to leave with immediate effect. The agencies not mentioned and supposedly ejected out of the seaports include Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Port Quarantine Services, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). She said: “I want to recognise seven approved agencies of government that operate at the port. In 2011, an approval was granted to streamline activities of government agencies at the port. “For ease of referencing, the approved agencies are Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA); Nigerian Customs Service (NCS); Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); Nigeria Police Force; Department of State Security (DSS); Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and Port Health”. According to her, any other agency of government operating at the port apart from  these seven are not required and should know they have to vacate whatever location they are occupying within the port because the current order stipulates they must not operate within the port. She specifically stated that the agencies ejected from the ports are to come in when their services are required. “The NDLEA is required to come in and provide function as at when required. All agencies that are not mentioned are to vacate the port or anywhere they are operating,’’ she added. In a document seen by the Daily Times, the House of Representatives on December 4th 2019 raised concerns over the absence of the above mentioned agencies, while urging the Federal Government to rescind their decision. “The House notes with serious concern over the exclusion of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control from the list of agencies at the ports and borders as a clear signal for purveyors of substandard drugs and their collaborators that the road is wide open for nefarious and unpatriotic activities. “Since the expulsion of SON and NAFDAC from all borders and ports, there has been unabated importation of substandard products into the country by unpatriotic Nigerians and this itself is one of the highest form of corruption and threat to national security,” the Lower legislative Chamber said. The House further resolved to urge the executive arm and the Minister of Finance to ensure that the agencies are returned back to ports. “We urge the Executive arm of government to rescind the order thereby allowing SON and NAFDAC in carrying out their statutory mandate especially as it relates to checking the influx and circulation of substandard and life endangering products into Nigeria and urge the Finance minister to dialogue to ensure the return of the agencies.” Meanwhile, reacting to the development, the Head, Public Relations Department of SON, Mr. Bola Fashina, said the organisation has since complied with the directive and has been operating outside the seaports. Speaking to the Daily Times, a financial expert and Special Technical Assistant to the President on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, (MSMEs), John Chris Mamuda, lamented the absence of the agency which according to him hampers public safety. He said: “The absence of SON and NAFDAC is worrying especially at a time when the country is fighting substandard drugs. This is because the agencies play a critical role in ensuring goods coming through the seaports comply with necessary standards. “Managers of our seaports must understand the principle of multi-disciplinary approach and must also learn to work as a team. “No regulatory agency has absolute mandate and power through the seaports and taking away these key agencies hampers public safety,” he said. Mamuda noted that although by statutory mandate, the Nigerian Ports Authority possess total control over the ports, there are other relevant agencies with concurrent powers to operate at the ports, and as such it is wrong to assume that only security agencies should be operating. He added that “the managers of seaports must align with a multi-disciplinary approach to ensure compliance with Public health safety so that the economy will not be sabotaged through import of substandard goods”. Speaking to the Daily Times, he however said that the organisation will soon appear before a House committee in a bid to have a resolution. “We are an arm of the Executive and have since 2011 complied with the Ministerial directive ejecting agencies including SON and NAFDAC from the ports. We have been operating from outside the ports since then only able to examine cargo when invited by Customs. “We are appearing before a joint Committee investigating issues of substandard products influx on Monday (today). The idea is to preempt the sitting since this resolution was passed in December.