A governorship aspirant in Ondo State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Isaac Kekemeke has commended the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party for adopting direct primary mode for electing the party’s flag bearers in the coming Edo and Ondo states governorship polls Speaking with journalists on Monday at the APC National secretariat after obtaining his expression of interest and nomination forms, he said the NWC has done well with the adoption to contain challenges always associated with conduct of governorship primaries. Kekemeke said “direct primary mode accords with COVID – 19 protocol of small gatherings. Instead of having at least two thousand, (2000) delegates at a Centre, scores of registered party members can safely gather at their wards to exercise their franchise. “Let me however humbly appeal to our national leadership to adopt the Direct mode of election in the forthcoming All Progressives Congress Governorship Primaries in Ondo State scheduled for July 20, 2020. Its advantages are numerous, and they far outweigh its challenges. Direct primary mode of election will amongst others: “It provides a level playing ground for all aspirants and thus promote fairness, equity and justice. “It reduces the influence of money in the process and help eliminate “Kidnap” of delegates and cash for vote syndromes. “It gives party members a general sense of duty /obligation to deliver the candidate in whose process of emergence they participated. “It portrays our national leadership as unbiased, consistent and predictable. If it was adopted in Lagos, Osun, Ogun and recently Edo, why not Ondo?” He said his mission is to work with all patriots to create a prosperous and peaceful Ondo State where citizens are productively engaged to enable them live meaningful, comfortable and decent lives. He said “basically, our resolve is to emplace an enabling/conducive environment for every able and willing Ondo State citizen to flourish. “Our mission is like no other. It is to with the aid of information, science and technology maximally impact Government revenue on the human capital and natural endowments of the state to create wealth. “While we aim to make government in Ondo State seeable, touchable and feelable, our objectives are to use the entire governmental powers to fight hunger, poverty, joblessness, insecurity and a rescue of our decayed basic infrastructure. “To berth this new government of our dream in Ondo State, the machinery of our campaign popularly known as Lekeleke Movement is committed to the practice of a new politics: the politics of “Ko siro, Ko sebo” that is, “no deceit and no rituals”.