From the moment the baby weight starts to accumulate, the scheming starts on how to lose it after the baby is born. After the little one arrives and you regain your daily routine, it’s time to put your ideas to work. If you’re not sure how to go about it, here are some tips. Get up and move: Most new mums hardly get any sleep and wouldn’t think about exercising just yet. But that’s perfectly OK says physiologist and postpartum -fitness expert Renee M. Jeffreys, Most women’s bodies aren’t ready for serious exercise until six weeks after the baby is born. It is longer if they’ve had a Cesarean section. You can start by Walking around the block. It’s a good way to start exercising. It helps you feel good and doesn’t cause excess bleeding. Walking a little farther the next day isn’t a bad idea and can be done everyday until your six-weeks checkup. It’s not necessary to leave the neighbourhood as pushing a Baby stroller 1-2 miles in 30 minutes burns 150 calories, so does walking up and down the stairs for 15 minutes. Breastfeed : When a nursing mother breastfeeds, she needs an extra 500 calories a day or about 2,700 in total. Breastfeeding burns up to 600/800 calories a day. Even if all you do is just sitting comfortably and feeding the baby, you could still loose weight. With this method some lucky women drop all their baby fat. But be informed that as soon as you stop breastfeeding, your calories will increase and you could add more weight if your diet isnt adjusted or if you don’t exercise regularly. Lift weights, get strong: Weight training goes a long way when it comes to speeding up your metabolism. Instead of going to the gym and investing your time into lifting some sets of dumb bells, jeffreys advices that you incorporate your baby into your fitness routine. Hold the baby to your chest and do lunges or doing lunges behind the stroller as you walk. You can also lie on your back, holding the baby above your chest and slowly press her up toward the ceiling several times. Watch calories: Make sure you fill your diet with a variety of nutrient rich meals containing whole grains, vegetables, fresh fruits, lean protein and plenty of low fat dairy products. Experts advise against going on a diet immediately after child birth. “To get your body back, you have to think health first” as your body is working to repair itself. Eating small, frequent meals throughout the day will keep your blood-sugar levels steady and will help prevent you from over eating. Also watch the juice. All the Vitamin C needed for a day is in a small glass of orange juice. Any more than that will be drinking extra calories. Take naps: “Getting plenty of sleep has been shown to help with weight loss because you’re not rely on high-calorie, high sugar foods for energy.” strange sleep cycles like those forced on you by a new born can upset your metabolism and make it harder to lose your pregnancy weight. Take a nap anytime the baby does, leave the housework. That way, you won’t end up with a long-term sleep deficit, your energy levels and potentially naughty cravings will be kept in check. Eat healthful snacks: Eating much sugar can send your blood-sugar levels very high. And when your blood-sugar drops, you’re more likely to eat whatever it is you lay your hands on. To avoid temptation, keep only nutritious foods at home, stock up on low fat milk and yogurt can aid weight loss by blocking a hormone that allows the body store fat. Also eating high-fiber snacks like raisins or whole-wheat crackers with veggies, can help with digestion and regularity. Get with other new moms: Getting with other new moms for regular exercise can be helpful. Some new moms form an early morning running group. Sometimes doing it alone can be boring and discouraging. Doing exercises in pairs can bring about friendly conversations and also help your regularity towards your goal.