Veteran Nollywood actress, Shan George was recently appointed The Chairman of Callywood board by Cross River state Governor Ben Ayade. In this interview with MUTIAT ALLI, The excited grandmother shares plans she has for her people, up and down moments of an entertainer, marriage plans and other issues bothering her career. Excerpts; Congratulations on your recent appointment how did that make you feel? It is something that has to do with making movies which is what love and have passion for, so I’m very excited because I would be able to impact a lot of knowledge on those who desire to follow same part in life like I did, still do and would still do. It really feels good and thank you to my governor. Did you see it coming? Sincerely, I never saw it coming. In fact not in my dream. I did not even imagine or saw it coming. What plans do you have in place for your people? Well, I have a lot of plans. Just like when you enter a new house, you look around to see where it’s located. I’m still in that stage right now, I can’t really say what my plans are at this moment. You have stayed relevant in the industry for decades, what’s your staying power? Being in the industry and been relevant for so many years has to do with the fact that you don’t just rest in your soars. You just keep working, pushing hard, never being depressed about the low times. That’s basically my staying power. Looking back what would you want to change about the movies you did back in the days? I don’t think I have done any movies in the past that I would say now that I regret. Everything fell into place at the right time. It is not the real me but I was only acting out a role which is a job. So, I put in my best from one movie to another trying to carry out the best of the character. Be it that of a Nun, house wife, prostitute, student, just any role given to me in the past, I try to do my best. I just keep improving, working on myself, schooling myself to get better. Any regrets? As a human being, naturally we all make mistakes as we climb the ladder of life. Some of those mistakes has to do with ones age, backgrounds, peer pressure, peer group, professional hazards. But generally these mistakes we make in life as we grow up are actually meant to make us stronger, make us work on ourselves to be better than the previous us. So, I’m not quite sure I have had any regrets over anything. So far no regrets, glory be to God. Would you say you are fulfilled? Fulfilled, I’m not sure what that means. I can’t interpret that word generally because as far as I’m concerned nobody knows tomorrow. As long as the day keeps breaking, new day keeps coming, we desire something else. I believe fulfillment is something that is almost like perfect which is not obtainable to anyone. What role have you not played and would love to play? I have basically played almost everything except playing a guy. I haven’t played a guy, I have played every other role including witch, student and others, would love to play a role of a man. What do you do to stand out as an actor? Well, I would say I work on myself.  I try to read my script not just read but study it, not just study but rehearse. I just keep working on myself. Reading a lot too. Then asking a lot of questions, I learn everyday from anybody, even younger people. Does being an actor make life easier for you? It has its ups and down just like every other kind of professions. One of the major downs is the fact that people tends to assume that you are the way you are in real life same way in movies. Some who has watched maybe bad roles like a witch or prostitute tends to see you real life and look at you somehow. I have been stoned in the market by market women who sell tomatoes. They stoned me those tomatoes because as at that time there was a movie I did at that time “Rest In Peace”. I played the character of deceiving my girlfriend to the village, drowned her in the river, then came back to the town to be like I don’t know what happened to her.  That was because my character wanted the guy my friend was dating. So many people watched the movie. So, the ups could be the fact that if I go somewhere, I could be given some concessions like being attended to maybe with a bigger smile than usual. Another down side is that people just think you have money because they see you in the movies in big houses, drive big cars, so when they see you in real life they expect you to be that wealthy and to be dashing everybody money. You seem to be aging backwards, what are your beauty secrets? Seriously, I don’t think so, I see the changes myself. I get a lot of people saying to me you are getting old now. I think my age is showing on my face. I don’t have any kind of beauty routine. I just use some nice lotion, drink a lot of water, don’t just eat any kind of junk, don’t drink alcohol too much, just have a limit and a boundary in everything I do and eat. It has it good sides, although I think I’m looking my age anyways. Would you consider remarriage? To be fair, one of the reasons I may not consider remarriage is because I’m kind of a bit scared. I’m the only child ,very emotional and all my life I have defended myself when I was small. When people bully me I just have to man up. So, right now little things that seem like threat to me, I could possibly over react. It would take someone who truly truly sees me as a sister before I could ever think of marriage again. I’m just scared. I don’t want any wahala. It has been severally reported that you have been married thrice, how true? I’ve not been married 3 times oh. Just twice. Things we read on the internet. Not that I care though. But truth is I’ve been married twice in my life. Those who know me, know the truth. I have a total of 9 children. 2 biological (sons) and 7 adopted (5boys, 2girls). My 2 biological sons are first marriage when I was 16. I didn’t have kids for my second marriage. But as an only child, I needed a full house, so I kept adopting. Would you say Creative’s are reaping the fruit of their labour like their counterparts abroad? It’s not a good comparison based on everything; based on our system of government, based on what we have on ground, based on this industry what was birthed. There’s really no room for comparison. Although, we are reaping but definitely not enough and not like our counterparts abroad. I can say it is because the world is becoming a universal village where everyone can reach everywhere because of the internet, people are able to reap more from their works than before. At least now you could put your work online or some platforms and get paid enough for you not to beg. We are getting there as far as I am concerned.