The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), on Monday, confirmed 315 new cases of COVID-19, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 12, 801. Lagos recorded its highest daily figure on Monday, with 128 infections. The state remains the epicentre for the disease. Seven deaths were recorded from the virus on Monday bringing the total number of confirmed deaths from the virus to 361. There was an increase in the number of infection reported on Monday as compared to Sunday (260). The agency in a tweet late Monday night said the 315 new cases were reported in 14 states – Lagos, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Rivers, Edo, Oyo, Kaduna, Gombe, Ogun, Delta, Kwara, Kano, Bauchi and Katsina. “Till date, 12801 cases have been confirmed, 4040 cases have been discharged and 361 deaths have been recorded in 35 states and the Federal Capital Territory,” it stated. The 315 new cases were reported from 14 states- Lagos – 128, FCT – 34, Rivers – 32, Edo – 28, Oyo – 22, Kaduna – 20, Gombe – 13, Ogun – 8, Plateau – 5, Delta – 7, Kwara – 7, Kano – 5, Bauchi – 4, Katsina – 2. So far, only one state in the country, Cross River, is yet to report a case of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says it is working closely with public health teams of the 36 state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to respond to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Director-General of NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, gave the assurance on Monday at the daily press briefing by the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, in Abuja. Ihekweazu said that the NCDC remained committed to supporting the crucial work of state epidemiologists. He said that the agency had a Zoom meeting with the epidemiologists last week He added that the agency was collaborating with states through the focal persons of the public health response in every state. The director-general said that the state epidemiologists needed encouragement and better understanding of their challenges. Ihekweazu said that Nigeria had enough reagents to test about 200,000 samples, across all its network of laboratories “We now really need to work with state epidemiologists to collect the samples,” he said. The director-general said that there had been low testing in the South East states. He encouraged the states to do more. “The earlier we find the cases, the better for us,” he said. The National Coordinator of PTF, Dr Aliyu Sani, said that the PTF had changed the evacuation protocol. “Previous 14-day isolation at government selected hotels will now be implemented as self-isolation at home or any other place selected by passengers, but within city of arrival. “In that period, they will not be expected to go out or receive visitors. “They will be required to stay in their cities of arrival (Abuja or Lagos) for a period of 14 days of self-isolation at their own cost (this isolation can be at home), “ he said. Sani said that there would be supervision by health authorities during the isolation. He said that Nigerian missions abroad would coordinate and provide clearance for the evacuation. “Emphasis will be on people in challenging circumstances: short-term visitors, those on medical and official trips, family holidays, pregnant women, the elderly and students,” he said.