Speaking at the press briefing organised by the task force, the governor said the data confirmed that the virus is fast spreading within the eight metropolitan local government areas particularly, Tarauni and Nassarawa Local Governments. “We are engaging in house-to-house sample collection. I think during the political campaign, some politicians engaged in house-to-house campaign. Right now for COVID-19, we are engaging in house-to-house sample collection campaign. “There is no doubt, we are always improving in our successes in the fight against COVID-19. This is as a result of the commitment of the task force and commitment of the frontline health workers. “By now, we have known the easiest way to contract this disease and the easiest way to avoid it. We know the three commandments of COVID-19, which are social distancing, washing and sanitizing our hands and wearing our face masks. “These three commandments should become our way of life. They should become part of our everyday life. “We are producing face masks in large quantities and the market leaders have promised to produce face masks and distribute them free of charge. They will also provide water and soap for visitors, and customers to use them. “We have also decided to fumigate all the markets to ensure that they are devoid of disease. The ratio of collection of samples has increased and we are determined to continue from this line,” Ganduje said. Coordinator, of the Task Force Technical Committee, Dr. Tijjani Hussaini, said out of the 970 cases of COVID-19 so far recorded in Kano state, 607 remain active, while 318 have been discharged. According to him, confirmed cases of coronavirus in Kano are concentrated within nine local government areas, including the eight metropolitan areas and Karaye Local Government Area He explained that Karaye Local Government Area gained the status based on the ‘almajiri’ camp located within the area. READ ALSO: 8 Policemen, one civilian feared killed in Kogi bank robbery He added that “we are piloting community sampling. We are no longer waiting for people to call us; we are going all out to ensure community sampling through selective testing. “We are doing this so as to isolate as many cases as possible, so that we can get to the end of this pandemic.” He charged the people of Kano to always follow all the COVID-19 pandemic protocols, adding that “if we do this, in the next few weeks, we will get to the end of this pandemic.” Also speaking, the Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, said: “I want to believe that people are now better informed on the energy being dispensed by the Ganduje administration in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. “On the distribution of palliatives, we have the privilege of having the presence of the governor who launched the distribution of the second phase of the palliatives to 50,000 households last Thursday. “We have concluded the assignment two days ago and the targeted 50, 000 households benefitted. We are taking stock of what is remaining and we are planning for the third phase of the palliatives. “We thank the governor for supporting the committee with N170 million to complete the second phase assignment.”