 Niger State will soon joined oil-producing states as the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) said it has commenced oil exploration activities in the Bida Basin. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Police vows to arrest, prosecute violators in Enugu This involved  eight local governments in the  state, just as it assured  that the progress being recorded in an ongoing exploration of inland basins by the Corporation is capable of growing nation’s reserve to 40 billion barrels by the year 2023. Group Managing Director (GMD)of the Corporation,  Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari  revealed  this on Wednesday during a visit to Governor Abubakar Sani Bello  to unveil the 2D seismic data acquisition in the Bida – Sokoto basin. The GMD was represented by NNPC Group General Manager Frontier Exploration Services, Abdullahi Bomai. The  GMD said an in-depth geological and geochemical studies showed that there are strong hydrocarbon-bearing indicators that have been confirmed as oil and gas-bearing formations in the eight local governments which extends to two other local governments in Kwara and 1 in Kogi states. He said, “further exploration activities based on the need for exploration in the Bida Basin, NNPC management has graciously approved the award of contract to Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL) and their alliance partners (BGP/CNPC International Nigeria limited to embark on immediate Seismic Data Acquisition to further unravel the presence of hydrocarbons in the Bida Basin. We are indeed delighted for the opportunity of today’s visit to inform you of the activities of NNPC/FES and also to solicit for your support”. According to Kyari, significant progress is being made in the ongoing exploration of inland basins, with a realistic and achievable target of growing the nation’s reserve to 40 million by year 2023 adding that “today we are glad to inform you of the commencement of hydrocarbon exploration in the sedimentary section of Niger state”. He solicited for the support, cooperation and participation of the state and local governments, traditional rulers and community leaders towards achieving the national mandate, adding that the deployment of light and heavy machineries will soon commence in the state. He listed the local government areas where exploration activities will commence to include Mokwa, Lavun, Gbako, Bida, Katcha, Agaie, Edati and Lapai, adding that in the course of conducting these operations, a lot of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers will be engaged. In his remarks, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello said expressed happiness over the realization of the project, stressing the need for the Corporation to pay adequate compensation to the people who would be affected by the exportation. He said, “we are all excited over the good news of the oil exploration. As you know, research in the development of the Bida Basin has been on for some times. We are however happy that the NNPC is seeing to the success of the project. We are hopeful that Niger state will join the oil producing states”. He said his administration will work with NNPC to ensure that communities are carried along and to compensate adequately communities which are going to be affected the oil exploration activities.