Unripe plantain is an excellent food for all and sundry because of its nutritional significance. No wonder it is an ideal diet for children, men and women. Due to the nutritional content of this food, it is regarded as being one of the healthiest diets across the globe. Without doubt, this food is reach in vitamins, irons, minerals, dietary fibre and it is low in GI carbohydrate. A. Calorie Content: Unripe plantain flour is calorie-dense. A 1 1/5 or 150gm cup of the flour will provide 437 calories. This quantity of calories represents almost 22% of the daily recommended ingestion of 2,000 calories. 1. Fat Content in Unripe Plantain FlourWith only 0.3gm of fat in a 150gm serving, plantain flour is low in fat. As fat is well-off in calories, you need it to survive because dietary fat helps your body absorb nutrients and gives feeling of satiety. 2 Protein Contained in Plantain FlourProtein is used to make and repair tissues, skin and muscle and it can be found in all cells of the body. Every 150gm of plantain flour contains only 5gm of this important nutrient. Hence, plantain flour is near to the ground in protein. 3. Gluten ContentPlantain flour is gluten-free as it is made of plantains instead of wheat products. Unfortunately, you will be unable to digest gluten – a protein present in wheat, if you have celiac aka gluten intolerance disease. B. Health benefit on why unripe plantain is good for consumption A diet of unripe plantain whether roasted or boiled will help to sustain and maintain attention in men by increasing sex drive, enhancing sexual performances, reducing sexual weakness & impotency. It improves the symptoms erective dysfunction, increases the volume and quality of sperm and helps with kidney, ulcer and diabetes problems in men. The recipe is unripe plantain, pure honey, clues and walnut, well grinded, mashed or pound together to make a gel or paste. After which the gel will be made to form flakes. The flakes can be referred to as a “drug”, a sex enhancing drug capable of improving penile erection, core coldness in women and also prevents premature ejaculation. Combining unripe plantain with spices like ginger, garlic and onions is a solution to high blood pressure, diabetes, low sperm count, erectile dysfunction, kidney problems and ulcer. Boiled unripe plantain doled out with red fish stew makes a medicinal and therapeutic dish. The meal is wholesome, delicious and tasty and it is good for those living with diabetes. Plantain flour is the product of dried and pulverized plantain slices. It is rich in vitamins most especially Ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) and carotene while its low fat content makes it a delight for people suffering from cholesterol related ailments such as obesity, diabetes, gallstone e.t.c You can grind unripe plantain into flour for consumption as a cure for diabetes. It can also be baked, fried or boiled, among other cooking alternatives. As a matter of fact, it is the nutritional value of unripe plantain that makes it one of its kinds and an essential addition to any particular healthy diet plan. Unripe Plantain Porridge is the best for those trying to reduce sugar consumption and it’s very healthy for everyone. Some people can’t eat unripe plantain because it’s not sugary but health wise it is what our body needs. It can also be mashed and served to babies being introduced to solid foods. If prepared with the right ingredients, it is very tasty. This meal, when prepared with goat meat gives a very yummy aroma. Adding scent leaves makes it best for women who have just given birth as they eat and drink the porridge. A little uziza seeds too can make a great difference and for those who like locust beans, just add a little and enjoy the rich taste with a difference. The sizes can be chopped smaller or longer depending on how you like your porridge.