It’s getting close to the end of the year and most people are yet to reach the resolutions on weight loss. If you are still dealing with some of the struggles of weight loss, you often find yourself looking for magic solutions. Your desire push yourself past your goals can lead you to throw caution to the wind, all in the name of finally losing that annoying weight for good. When that starts to happen, you might find yourself drawn to a commercial or internet advertisement promoting some drugs that promise to dramatically boost your efforts. They are often marketed as a quick fix for long-term weight loss. They’ll draw you in with phrases like“Burn fat instantly!”“Suppress your appetite!”“Eat whatever you want!”“No exercise needed!”As much as we might wish they were, weight loss pills are not a magic solution to losing weight. According to experts, weight loss pills can be effective when combined with a healthy diet and regular exercise, and can help you lose more weight than just diet and exercise alone. The combination of the three — eating less, exercising more and weight loss pills — can help you lose between 5 percent and 10 percent of your total body weight within one year. However, weight loss pills alone, without any lifestyle changes, are not a healthy or effective way to lose weight.Then again, it is very important to be aware of the dangers and side effects of weight loss  pills. Most weight loss pills are either appetite suppressants or stimulants, and they can have adverse effects on your heart rate, as well as gastrointestinal side effects. And because some weight loss pills hinder the absorption of some fat into your body, they also can prohibit the absorption of vital nutrients.Even the most effective diet pills are only meant to be taken for a short period of time — usually six months or less. Prescription weight loss pills are designed for people who are dangerously overweight, not just looking to lose a few pounds.  On the other hand, Rapid weight loss pills which sounds more appealing, is dangerous and unhealthy. As fat blockers like orlistat (Xenical) remove excess fats via the intestines, they may cause uncomfortable pains,  gas and diarrhea and mood swings Because these drugs also reduce the body’s absorption of essential vitamins and nutrients, people who take Xenical are advised to take a daily multivitamin supplement. Sibutramine (Meridia) and other similar appetite suppressants stimulate the sympathetic nervous system, which can raise blood pressure and heart rate. This increases the risk of heart attack and cardiac arrest, especially among people who already suffer from high blood pressure, irregular heartbeat or heart disease. Other, more minor side effects include constipation, headache, dry mouth and insomnia (because the chemicals in these drugs also influence sleep patterns). Herbal diet pills, even though they’re “all natural,” can have potentially dangerous side effects depending upon their ingredients. “Herbal” doesn’t necessarily mean “safe.” Also, some of them do not have NAFDAC registration and as a result, there is no guarantee that they can live up to their manufacturers’ claims. Many of these herbal slimming pills are a gimmick. There is no scientifically controlled evidence to prove that they work. A study released by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, found that out of 127 dietary supplements (including weight loss pills) 20 percent made illegal claims on the labels stating that the product cured or treated disease Besides, you could become addicted. According to experts, slimming pills often contain amphetamines, anti-anxiety drugs, and antidepressants. Not only is this a dangerous mix, but these drugs are also highly addictive. .In addition they are mostly ineffective.Many weight loss pills are simply a combination of caffeine and other diuretics, which cause water loss. Initially this results in a lower number on the scale, but this is not true fat loss and the water weight will return. Additionally, extreme water loss due to diet pills can cause dangerous dehydration. Most importantly, Long term weight loss requires a change in your eating and exercise habits to adopt a healthier lifestyle. Will you take them forever? No. Once you stop, you’ll be back to your poor habits and initial weight. So change your eating habits and exercise routine and quite looking for that magic pill that will make you make you lose weight without lifting a finger.