…Says probe of former Emir Sanusi will continue Governor Abduallahi Ganduje of Kano State says the State Government will reduce the 2020 Budget by 30 per cent. Ganduje made this known during an interactive session with newsmen on Monday at the Government House, Kano. He explained that the reduction was to help mitigate the economic fallout precipitated by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Ganduje added that the fall in crude oil prices and its effects on statutory allocation expectations and downward pressure of IGR, made the government to cut the budget. He insisted that the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission would go on with the process of probing the former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, saying this is because his effort to stop the probe was quashed by a competent court of law. “When we wanted to bring on board reform to our traditional institution, the former Emir did not cooperate with the process of reform. The process was truncated, so the only option for him was to find his way out. And that was what happened,” Ganduje stated. Explaining that when the process started, there were some legal issues that slowed the process, the Governor said: “That time there was this so-called Kano Elders Forum that tried to also frustrate the reform process. Their case was squashed by another court of competent jurisdiction.” In the absence of all legal issues, as observed by the governor, the process has already been concluded, adding, “And it is the sole aim of trickling down development to other parts of the state, particularly the communities that house the new Emirates, that they were created,” he said. After making explanation on the absence of legal issues truncating the reform process then, he didn’t mince words in assuring the public and encouraging the state Anti-Corruption Agency that “our state Anti-Corruption Agency will continue probing the former Emir over the issues he has with them”. “When he took them to court to stop the Agency from probing him, the case was quashed. So they will continue probing him according to the set down law,” Ganduje added.