Ogun state government, on Thursday, launched the community policing project in order to further allow the citizens in assisting the police to combat crime in the society. Performing the launch, the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun used the occasion to call on the inspector general of police to intensify efforts on reforming the police service to adapt to the reality on ground. ‘I urge the police leadership to intensify efforts at a total reform of the police service, which will be a pride to all and sundry. By so doing, you would have left indelible footprints in the sands of time. He commended the police inspector-general for making the state to be amongst the pilot states for the implementation of the community policing project. Speaking on other efforts to secure the state, Governor Abiodun said the state “has collaborated with other south-west states to establish a community-based security outfit that came into existence through a law passed by the state House of Assembly. “I believe that the ‘Amotekun’ outfit will complement this community policing initiative.” He then called for a harmonious relationship and partnership between all the security agencies on one hand and the public, on the other. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Kano to commence house -to-house sample collection Speaking on the essence of the project, Abiodun said that “the constitutional responsibility of the police to maintain public order, prevent and detect crime is a highly demanding duty and the political, and socio-economic activities in the society can only thrive if these roles are well pursued. “Everyone in this gathering has justification to be apprehensive of the security situation, at first, in his immediate community and generally in the country. We hear of armed robbery incidences, kidnapping and other criminal vices almost every day. “It is essential that we must remember that those who engage in crime are not spirits; they are individuals just as you and I, and they live within our various communities. “Similarly, personnel of the police are individuals who, ordinarily, also have a stake in the society and would have preferred a peaceful atmosphere in their own rights. “Therefore, it is possible to say that the job of the police is squarely community-oriented and can only be achieved with a synergy of the police as an institution and the people. ‘It is in this regard that I wish to commend the initiative of the Inspector-General of Police, Muhammed Abubakar Adamu, in his wisdom to promote community policing in the society.” Speaking to journalists after the launch, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in -charge of Training, David Folawiyo, who represented the inspector general commended the state for being proactive in the areas of assisting the police to perform their constitutional roles. He said the community policing project which is people oriented will help in fighting and policing the state.