The 2019 Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate in Kwara State, Comrade Issa Aremu,  has commended  President Muhammadu Buhari for his recent intervention in the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying his actions saved the ruling party. Aremu according to reports hailed the Nigerian leader for intervening at the heat of the crisis, adding that Buhari saved his party from self-destructing and refocused the attention of Nigerians to the current challenges of governance. The former gubernatorial candidate who spoke in Kaduna said though he was not a member of the ruling party, any crisis in APC should be of utmost concern to compatriots. According to Aremu, the crisis within a ruling party must be of grave concern because of what he described as adverse implications for good governance. The former Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) vice president recalled that the internal crisis that rocked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) created an avenue for security challenges in the country to deepen. “President Buhari has not just saved his party from self destruct, but has commendably inadvertently refocused the attention of all Nigerians to the current challenges of governance, the worst manifestation being the huge spikes in COVID:19 infection and fatality rates, ongoing commendable Presidential Taskforce interventions, and the newly announced complementary Economic Sustainability agenda,“ he said. The APC on Thursday, June 25, dissolved its National Working Committee (NWC) amid crisis threatening to implode the ruling party. This drastic decision of the party came on the heels of recommendations made by President Buhari during a crucial meeting. The dissolution of the APC’s NWC was announced on the Twitter page of President Buhari’s special assistant on new media, Bashir Ahmad. Similarly, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the former spokesman of the defunct national working committee of the APC said that the dissolution of the organ was timely. Issa-Onilu noted in his recommendations on Thursday, June 25, that the ruling party was at the verge of hitting the rock with many litigations from rival factions, court orders and counter-orders. He went on to say that President Buhari’s recommendation was based on legal advice and painstaking consultations and as such, were well thought of.