…Says it’s working out a resumption plan with Ministry of Education …Urges Govs to sensitise traditional, religious leaders about pandemic The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on the dreaded Coronavirus disease otherwise referred to as COVID-19 has given reasons why schools cannot reopen now. Speaking during the resumed daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 in Abuja on Thursday, the PTF National Coordinator, Dr. Sani Aliyu, explained that the decision not to reopen schools was part of measures being taken to protect vulnerable Nigerians who may have some underlying infections. Aliyu said that the decision to restrict gathering in churches and mosques was informed by the fact that most of those who go there are within vulnerable Nigerians who may have underlying illnesses. He said the PTF was working closely with the Ministry of Education to work out a resumption plan for schools in view of the fact that majority of students may be living with the vulnerable group of Nigerians they were striving to protect. According to him, the plan may be to allow those who were supposed to write examinations to do so, saying, “we don’t want what has happened to affect the next academic session”. He added that 20 percent of Nigerian have underlying infections, adding the government has a responsibility to protect them against infection, hence the suggestion by government for people to stay at home. The Presidential Task Force on the novel Coronavirus pandemic also called on governors to reach out to traditional, religious and community leaders for dialogue and education. Speaking on Thursday at the PTF briefing on COVID-19, the Secretary to the government of the Federation and PTF chairman, Boss Mustapha, said that the sensitisation has become necessary following the rise in COVID-19 cases in the country. While stressing that a great majority of Nigerians are still susceptible to COVID-19, Mustapha cautioned that if we allow it to transmit easily between us, it may be even more deadly. He reaffirmed that the PTF will continue to monitor the level of activities and compliance with the guidelines nationwide. “Consultations will continue and tonight, I will be holding another round of video conference with the team of Governors appointed by the National Economic Council to interface with the PTF. “The PTF will re-emphasise its appeal to governments at the sub-national level as well as our security agencies to enforce the guidelines and protocols firmly. “The PTF would also be meeting with the heads of these agencies to further fine-tune strategies to ensure compliance. “This (Thursday) afternoon, the PTF met with the House of Representatives Ad-Hoc Committee on COVID-19. The interaction was robust and we received assurances that the legislative support required would be given to help us overcome the pandemic. “Similarly, we are pleased to inform you that His Excellency, Mr. President held a video conference meeting with the President of the ECOWAS in his capacity as the ECOWAS Champion for the control of COVID-19. During the conference, matters pertaining to the regional response to the pandemic were discussed. “Specifically, such matters include our common risks as a sub region, the need for our collaboration in response, our inter-dependence and Nigeria’s role given our large population and the position of Mr. President as the ECOWAS Champion”, he said. He further called for a solemn and reflective celebration of Democracy Day. “The PTF urges that we should celebrate in a solemn and reflective manner. We must ensure that our goal is to stay alive and remain COVID-19 free. Let the date be a reminder of the reality of our times, the disrupting effects of COVID-19, the realisation that we are faced with a new normal and the necessity for us to individually and collectively prepare ourselves to conquer this pandemic. “The best celebration we would bequeath ourselves, is to strengthen our individual and collective resolve to abide by the guidelines to protect ourselves, our friends, our loved ones and the country at large”, Mustapha added. Earlier, the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu said that the rise of coronavirus cases recorded in the country of recent is not unusual. He attributed the increase in the number of infections reported in the last few weeks to the eased lockdown. He said: “As we have eased the restriction that we have instituted across the country, we have expected the numbers to increase. We have announced it several times to expect an increase in numbers. So, this increase in numbers is not unusual. “As we increase testing and relax the lockdown, this is a virus that goes from one individual to the other, therefore, it is most likely that we will see an increase in numbers. Whether that increase continues or not depends on our collective action. “Sometimes, these numbers are necessary to remind us of the reality. While the number of deaths as a proportion might appear small, these are all people that many of us have gotten to know, and every day, you get to hear about one other friend or relative that, unfortunately, have passed away.”