…As Apatira meets council legislators on development agenda The Lagos State First Lady, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu at the weekend joined the Executive Chairman of Itire-Ikate LCDA, Hon. (Dr.) Ahmed Olanrewaju Apatira and His Wife, Alhaja Sidiqat Olamide Apatira for a Walk Against Rape, Sexual and Gender Based Violence Against Women and Children, held in the heart of Surulere, from Teslim Balogun Stadium to Masha, in Surulere. It was an occasion when men from all walks of life based in Surulere including community and religious leaders, politicians, bankers, doctors, policemen, among other respectable people joined the movement against #Rape and all forms of Sexual and Gender-Based Violence against women and children. As part of the symbolic All Male Advocacy Walk, a signpost declaring Surulere Local Government as the first #RapeFreeZone in Nigeria, was also unveiled to demonstrate the intention of the community to discourage impunity with regards to the crime of rape and support the survivors. The Lagos State First Lady, Dr Sanwo-Olu used the opportunity of the walk to urge men and boys out there who are yet to join this movement to do so without further delay and #TakeResponsibility for making the society safe for all women and girls. Adding that, “We shall not rest on our oars until the whole of Lagos and Nigeria truly become #RapeFreeZone.” In another development, the Itire-Ikate LCDA boss, Dr. Apatira has held a crucial meeting with the legislators of the LCDA at the council secretariat, with the aim of planning strategy on improving the developmental strides achieved so far by his administration. A release by the chairman’s media said that the Hon. Apatira led administration in almost three years at the helms of affairs in Itire-Ikate LCDA has reconstructed numerous roads that are of huge importance to residents of the communities. It is noteworthy that Dr. Apatira administration has given the youths empowerment scheme which he has invested heavily on areas of skills acquisition programme, distribution of free GCE and Jamb Forms and provision of bursaries and other notable courses. Speaking after the meeting, Leader of the council, Hon. Akorede Adams Subair hinted that the magnitude of aspirations shared by the council helmsman will be felt more in the coming weeks as his enthusiasm towards infrastructural developments is unrivalled and will be pursued sincerely.