A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr Joe Igbokwe, on Tuesday said the South East had benefited immensely under the APC government of President Muhammadu Buhari. He made the statement in Ikeja while speaking with newsmen during the inauguration of new executives of Ndigbo APC in Lagos State. Edo gov. poll: Buhari promises to support me, says Obaseki Igbokwe, who is the leader of the group, said the South East had gotten more projects under the APC government than any other government since 1999. He said the APC government would soon deliver the Second Niger Bridge after several failed promises by previous governments. Igbokwe, also the Special Adviser to Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Drainage and Water Resources, urged more people from the South East to join the APC as the party meant well for the region and the country in general. “I want more of our people to join the APC given what is happening in the South East now in terms of development. “I do not think there is any project bigger than the Second Niger Bridge in Nigeria now; the bridge is getting to completion. “I know that by next year, the government would have finished the bridge. The same bridge that was used to dupe our people for 22 years will soon be completed,” he said. Igbokwe said the inauguration of the executives was to further strengthen Ndigbo in APC Lagos to take the party to greater heights both in the state and at the national level. He added that the group had the mandate to mobilise Ndigbo for the APC to ensure the party’s continued foothold in Lagos and the nation. Igbokwe charged the new executives to discharge their duties without let or hinderance and ensure the growth of the party “from strength to strength”. He dismissed reports in some quarters that there was division in Ndigbo APC in Lagos State. The governor’s aide said that whoever was parading himself as apex leader of Ndigbo in Lagos APC outside of the group was an imposter as the group was not factionalized. Igbokwe said he was the face of Ndigbo in Lagos APC as he had done a lot for the party and that he was recognised as leader by all Igbo political stakeholders in APC. He called for support for Gov. Sanwoolu, saying the governor was doing his best to take the state to greater heights. Speaking on behalf of the newly inaugurated executives, the Coordinator, Chief Uche Dimgba,  thanked all members of the group, particularly Igbokwe, for the confidence reposed in them. He also thanked the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for giving all members of the party a sense of belonging. Dimgba promised that he and other executive members of the Ndigbo in Lagos APC would do their best to move the party forward. The 15-member executive include Chief Chris Ekwulo(Deputy Coordinator);Princess Oby Onu(Women Leader);Chief Uche Babatata(Organising Secretary);and Mr Leo Obasi(Assistant Youth Leader). (NAN)