Nigerians who justify rape now run the risk of getting arrested as suspects, the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has said. The warning comes on the heels of reports of incease in rape cases across the country. Just on Tuesday, the Police said a 21-year-old National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member in Akwa Ibom State was gang-raped in Uyo, the state capital. The police, in the statement, also said they arrested a 55-year-old man, Udo Ekong Esau, in Odot 1 community, Nsit Atai Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State, for allegedly raping his 15-year-old step-daughter in March. The police added that they have arrested one Ekemini Asuquo Aya, 38, for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl whom he was said to have lured with N1500 to a hotel, Celebrity Hotel, in Abak Local Government Area, on June 8. NAPTIP director-general, Julie Okah-Donli, gave the warning while answering questions from journalists in Abuja on Wednesday. She queried parents for not doing enough to take care of their wards and children, explaining that 90 per cent of rape cases were committed by uncles, fathers and relations. According to her, many careless acts by parents are responsible for rape cases across the country. She, therefore, said that the agency would approach the Ministry of Justice to push for the establishment of special court to try rapists. Mrs Okah-Donli also called for life imprisonment instead of capital punishment for convicted rapists, adding that there was need to educate Nigerians, especially neighbours on rape issues. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agency’s toll-free lines to call during distress, especially as it concerns rape are – 07030000203, 0802255627847 and 08077225566. The NAPTIP boss said that cases could also be reported on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, among others. She, however, said that there was no national template of victims’ trauma response to share pain, adding that the duration of psychological trauma varies from individuals.