…Say Health workers are subjected to poor working conditions …Call on Buhari to immediately pay all arrears owed The National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) of Nigeria, on Monday, commenced a nationwide indefinite strike action over what it described as insensitive response to the demands of health workers by the government. This development is coming after the expiration of the 14-day ultimatum issued to the Federal Government to implement its demands. Addressing a news conference in Abuja on Monday, the National President of the association, Dr. Aliyu Sokomba, lamented that in spite of the repeated promises, the Federal Government has still not paid the COVID-19 hazard inducement allowance to all health workers across the country. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately commence payment of all arrears to members in Federal and states tertiary health institutions, arising from the consequential adjustment of the National minimum wage. Sokomba described as unfortunate that the healthcare delivery system is characterised by the perpetual unavailability of personnel protective equipment (PPEs) for healthcare workers, which has caused an increase in infection rates. He also lamented that the implementation of the Medical Residency Training Act in all Federal and States hospitals, which ensures the inclusion of the residency funding into the reviewed 2020 budget, has not been effected. “NEC noted the sorry state of the healthcare delivery system characterised by the perpetual unavailability of personnel protective equipment for healthcare workers in our hospitals with the attendant increase in infection rates, the unnecessary suffering of patients and their relatives, the financial hardship, the obsolete equipment, machines and technology, etc. “NEC noted the commitment of National Assembly speaker to implement the Medical Residency Training Act by ensuring inclusion of the residency funding into the reviewed 2020 budget. “NEC observed the insincerity of the Appointees of Executive Arm of Government in paying the outstanding salary shortfall of 2014, 2015, 2016 under the guise of the so-called appeal of the National Industrial Court decision. “NEC observed non-payment of the COVID-19 hazard inducement allowance to all health workers across the country in spite of repeated promises by the government”, he said. He observed that the plight of her members in states tertiary hospitals such as the non-domestication and non-implementation of Medical Residency Training Act at the state level, the non-implementation of appropriate salary structure, and the non-payment of owed salaries and recently, the slashing of salaries of doctors and other health care workers by Kaduna and Kogi State governments is yet to receive attention by the stakeholders. Sokomba said the National Executive Council (NEC) of the NARD therefore resolved to proceed on an indefinite nationwide strike action with the exemption of its members attending to COVID-19 patients at designated COVID -19 treatment and isolation centres for two weeks, after which if things remain the same, they shall also be co-opted to join the strike. According to him, the exemption was in recognition of the intervention of the Speaker, House of Representative, Femi Gbajabiamila, the chairman, House committee on Health Services, Dr. Tanko Sununu and other stakeholders as well as a demonstration of our good will to Nigerians. Listing the demands of the Association, Sokomba said: “The government must ensure the provision of the grossly inadequate appropriate Personal Protective Equipment for all Healthcare workers. “The universal implementation of the Medical Residency Training Act in all Federal and State hospitals and ensuring pay parity among doctors of equal cadre. “The immediate implementation of the revised Hazard allowance and payment of the COVID-19 inducement allowance as agreed with by the Government and Healthcare Workers three months ago. “The provision of funding for Medical Residency Training in the 2021 Appropriation bill. “The payment of all arrears owed our members in Federal and States tertiary health institutions, arising from the consequential adjustment of the National minimum wage. “The stoppage and immediate refund of all illegal, unjust and callous cut in salaries of our members by Kaduna State and other state governments.” The Association further called on President Buhari to call relevant agents/agencies to order for deliberately creating chaos to destabilise his administration.