The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has seized a multi-million naira property belonging to the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed. In a statement by its spokesperson, Mrs. Rasheedat A, Okoduwa, the ICPC said the governor cannot be prosecuted yet because he enjoys immunity by virtue of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution. The Anti-graft agency said Governor Mohammed, who was a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), allocated the said property to a school that had himself and family members as directors and shareholders. The property which houses Zinaria International School is located at Plot 298 Wuye District, Cadastral Zone B3, FCT, Abuja,” ICPC said. “ICPC’s intelligence-led investigation revealed that Mohammed in his official capacity as the FCT Minister had allocated the said property to a school that had himself and family members as directors and shareholders, despite an existing right of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture over the land. “To this end, the commission will issue notices of seizure and shall cause them to be served on the appropriate land registry, ministry and department where the property is situated as required by law. “Mohammed had earlier been charged for using his office to confer corrupt advantage upon himself and relations under Section 19 of ICPC law but could not be arraigned before he was sworn in as Governor of Bauchi State. “In view of the provisions of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, the charge which was pending before Hon. Justice Danladi Senchi of FCT High Court 13, Jabi, was withdrawn by the Commission to forestall its being struck out by the court suo moto. “Following the notice of seizure, the Commission will apply to the court for an order of forfeiture under Section 48 of the ICPC Act in line with the Federal Government Policy focusing on recovery of proceeds of crime, pending when the tenure of the governor expires.” READ ALSO 2 die as tipper rams into crowd in Onitsha The ICPC had also declared a House of Representatives member, Shehu Muhammad, wanted “for his failure to appear before the commission, in an ongoing investigation against him.”