Akwa Ibom State governor, Udom Emmanuel, has commissioned isolation centre as part of activities to mark the first anniversary of his second term in office. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony in Uyo on Sunday, Governor Emmanuel said the 300 bed capacity centre was constructed within 30 days for COVID-19 patients and would be used as infectious disease treatment centre in Akwa Ibom State. He said the isolation centre which is located at the premises of Methodist General Hospital, Ituk Mbang, Uruan Local Government Area, comprises of Category 3 Virology and Clinical Laboratory capable of doing a wide range of blood, fat and other tests for those who have core morbidities and polymerase chain reactions with PCR machines for testing of COVID-19 and HIV as well as 20 self-contained rooms for health personnel and other workers. Governor Udom also announced that 25 more containers of medical equipment acquired by his administration have been received in the state ready to be deployed to other health facilities. He appealed to the Federal Government to assist the state to set up health laboratory or treatment centre to handle COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. “We have acquired 25 additional containers of equipment to set up 2020 standard Intensive Care Units in health facilities across all senatorial districts. “We have cleared all those equipment and they are at our warehouse. All general hospitals will be equipped to 2020 standard. “The idea is that anywhere you are in Akwa Ibom State, you should be able to have access to 2020 medicare”. Governor Udom also announced that the state government has acquired more ambulances placed at strategic locations to ease movement of people to any general hospital for effective health care delivery. He assured that the situation room set up to tackle COVID-19 will outlive the pandemic and will still be available for medical emergencies. “Once you call any of our numbers, the ambulance should be able to take you to the nearest hospital or transport you from one facility to the other.” He appreciated the Methodist Church for allowing the Government take over the management of the facility and thanked all those whose contributions have ensured the rapid transformation recorded in two years. “Two years ago when I came here for renovation, I said that it will come to a time when 15 minutes and even one hour will be too much to travel out of this country for health care.” He explained that based on the contact tracing projections in the state, he had anticipated the number of infected persons, and warned that everyone should adhere to the management guidelines of COVID-19. He commended local government chairmen, royal fathers and health workers for their efforts in sensitisation and assured that the pandemic would soon come to an end. Governor Udom explained that the remodeled Immanuel General Hospital in Eket would soon be commissioned, adding that work at the Abak and Ikot Ekpene General Hospitals have reached advanced stages while the contract has just been awarded for the General Hospital in Ikot Abas. Dr. Ukpong, who is the state Incident Manager for COVID-19, said: “Our Governor has shown resilience, competence, passion, involvement, financial and spiritual support. “First isolation centre was built by this administration during the Lassa fever outbreak, and the second was installed at the Ibom Specialist Hospital and this facility is the third that has been established to expanded capacity.” Governor Udom was later conducted round the facility by the Commissioner for Works, Mr. Ephraim Inyangeyen whose Ministry supervised the construction of the project.