Mr Abdulrrahman Ayuba, a survivor of the deadly coronavirus (COVID-19) disease in Kwara on Thursday says Nigerians must exhibit high sense of responsibility if the disease is to be contained this came as the Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC), has recorded 587 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19), bringing the total number of infections in the country to 17, 735. Ayuba said this while recounting his experience during an interview in Ilorin. According to him, people who think that the virus is a financial scam are doing that at their own risk. He described COVID-19 as “an infection that is dreadful, highly contagious and can kill.” He cautioned citizens against flouting regulations and safety measures issued by authorities, stressing that wearing of face mask, hand washingand maintaining physical distance were necessary protocols against the spread of the disease. He added that “Nigerians must learn to live with COVID-19, and must act responsibly. “Never forget your face mask, always wash your hands or use alcohol-based sanitiser, maintain a distance and always keep your homes andsurroundings clean,” he advised. Ayuba, who is a Convener of the CSO Working Group for COVID-19 in Kwara, said that Nigeria could not afford to shut down her system since 80 per cent of suspected cases may be asymptomatic “which authorities say may not need to be quarantined.” The survivor, who spent 20 days in the Kwara Infectious Centre, called on the state government to intensify efforts towardcommunity outreach to sensitise people in the hinterland about how to keep safe. Insecurity: Excuses will no longer be tolerated, says Buhari, charges Service Chiefs to do more He also urged the government to engage experts in the medical field to educate the people on how to boost their immunity. “This is because, while at the infectious centre, I was made to understand that boosting one’s immunity is highly essential. “To fight COVID-19, it is essential to boost one’s immunity for early cure.” The Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC), has recorded 587 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19), bringing the total number of infections in the country to 17, 735. The NCDC announced this on Wednesday through its official Twitter handle. It said that as at June 17, the 587 new confirmed cases were from 18 states and 14 deaths recorded. There was a drop in the number of deaths reported on Wednesday, compared to the 31 deaths reported on Tuesday The Nigeria Publicity Health Institute said that no new state had reported a case in the last 24 hours. The NCDC said that Lagos reported the highest number of cases with 155 new cases, while Edo was second with 75 new infections. Others were FCT–67, Rivers–65, Oyo–56, Delta–50, Bayelsa–25, Plateau–18, Kaduna–18, Enugu-17, Borno–12, Ogun–12, Ondo–7, Kwara–4, Kano–2, Gombe–2, Sokoto–1 and Kebbi-1. The NCDC said that till date, 17, 735 cases had been confirmed, 11,229 active cases, 5,967 cases had been treated and discharged, 103,799 samples had been collected, and 469 deaths had been recorded in 35 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The NAN reports that the NCDC had announced the inclusion of four new laboratories in the COVID-19 Molecular Lab Network. The NCDC stated that there were currently 38 laboratories in Nigeria with the capacity to test for COVID-19. It, however, disclosed that in progress: were Gombe and Ondo states. The agency said it has the capacity to test daily for 10,000 persons across the country. The Nigeria Public Health institute tests about 2, 000 people daily as the laboratories are working at about 20 per cent capacity at the moment. The agency, however, called on state governments to bring samples for testing . It said it had continued with the stockpiling of medical and testing supplies to states and tertiary health facilities across the country. “The commodities will be used to strengthen testing capacity and the management of COVID-19 cases in laboratories and isolation centres across the country,” It said. 