The University of Ibadan (UI) has confirmed Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki graduated from the institution. The university, in a statement by its Registrar, Mrs Olubunmi Faluyi, said Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, studied Classics. COVID-19: Viewing centre operators set to enforce NCDC protocols According to the statement, the Governor gained admission to the university in 1976 and graduated in 1979 with a Second Class Honours (Lower Division). “Records of his admission and graduation are intact in the archives of the university.” the statement said. Obaseki yesterday took on those accusing him of forging his certificates, saying he duly earned them. He described the allegations as baseless, unfounded and diversionary, charging those raising eyebrows over the certificates to approach the issuing institutions to verify their authenticity or otherwise. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, the governor said he duly earned his certificates from the different educational institutions he attended, adding that anyone raising issues about them is only being mischievous.“The hullabaloo over the governor’s certificates is a lame and weak effort to cause crisis and stir unnecessary controversy. The governor’s displayed results are duly earned from the institutions he attended. ”If any individual or group of persons has issues with the results, they are free to approach the institutions to make enquiries as regards the authenticity of the particulars.“They are free to go to St. Mathews Anglican Primary School; Eghosa Grammar School, University of Ibadan (UI) and others, to verify the results,” he stated. On how the governor gained admission to University of Ibadan with his results, Osagie said: “The criteria for admission is the sole preserve of the institution and anyone with issues over the criteria can also approach the institution for clarification. It is not the place of a political party to query an institution over the requirement for admitting its students.”