Operators of viewing centres in Kwara have expressed readiness to obey government order by providing hand sanitisers for use and as well observe physical distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The operators spoke with newsmen in Ilorin on Wednesday, UN puts Nigeria’s electricity access rate at 57% They expressed their readiness to play according to the rules of safety as football league across Europe is set to resume fully in few days’ time. The owner of Champion Viewing Centre in Olunlade, Ilorin, Bayo Olatunji, said that he would allow few number of viewers in order not to violate government directive on social gathering. “I have made up my mind not to flout government order. I have already bought enough hand sanitisers and water buckets to use at the entrance and I will also allow 30 customers in to allow one metre each for their sitting arrangements,” he said. Another viewing centre operator in Offa Garage, Wasiu Olarewaju, said he would prevent crowd from gaining entrance. “I will play according to the rules. It will be first come first serve. “My viewing centre used to accommodate over 70 before the coronavirus but now I will not allow overcrowded centre. I will allow just 50 people in,” he said. Kunle Abolaji, Chief Executive Officer of Millennium Viewing Centre at Sango, Ilorin, warned other football viewing centres not to provoke government but to obey government order on safety. “What we have been praying for has happened. Football is back. “We need not provoke government to close down viewing centers. Let us obey safety conditions put in place,” he advised. Bode Babatunde, a viewing centre operator at Taiwo, Ilorin, said he had placed safety rules at the entrance of his football house. “I have specified the rules such as compulsory use of facemask before you can be allowed inside. Compulsory washing of hand and use of sanitiser before match and during half time as well as one metre space between every viewer,” he said. Another operator at Unity area, Ilorin, Kayode Aina, said viewing centre had been his only source of income. “I don’t have any alternative. I am ready to do the right thing and screen everybody coming in to watch matches. “I will enforce use of face mask and allow small number of viewers in order not to provoke government,” he said. Football activities had been suspended for the past three months across the globe due to the outbreak of COVID-19. Football activities resumed in some parts of the world as German Bundesliga resumed two weeks ago. Spanish Laliga, English Premier League and Italian Serie A are set to resume June 11, 17 and 20 respectively with other top leagues also set to resume soon. (NAN)