The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Folio Communications Limited, Mr. Fidelis Anosike has announced his resignation from the Company’s board. Anosike announced this in a statement on Sunday (June 7, 2020).He said that Folio Communications Limited is a conglomerate, founded at a young age of 24 after graduating from the University of Benin, where he studied Creative Arts.Other companies under this conglomerate are; Folio Nigeria powered by CNN, the Daily Times Nigeria, Miss Nigeria, 1st October, Times Multimedia and Creative Africa Xchange (CAX).He stated, ‘’I’m proud to announce my stepping down as the Chairman and CEO of Folio Communications Limited,  a company I founded straight out of University of Benin with  24″.‘’We  have nurtured his company, to aquire @DailyTimesNGR, @MissNigeriaNG, @1st October @folionigeria @timesmultimedia@cax.’’‘’ I am very proud of what we were able to achieve which should be an inspiration for our young people”Sharing his personal life on how he lost his father who was a junior police officer with the Nigerian Police Force at a young age, Anosike further advised young people to be hardworking, resilient and believe that nothing can stop them from achieving their goals.He said, ‘’Once you believe you are a Nigerian, nothing can stop you. My dad who was a junior police officer passed at 52, leaving my uneducated mother to labour to train five boys and three girls, who are now grown up men and women.Anosike also announced the new board members of the company. They are;1. Mr Sam Worlu former Voice of Nigeria (VON) DG as the Chairman2. Barr. Noel Anosike as the Executive Vice Chairman3. Mallam Mohammed Ciroma as Non-Executive Director4. Dr Victor Alaofin as Non-Executive Director5. Mrs Chioma Okigbo as Non-Executive Director6. Mrs Chiamaka Igwe as Non-Executive Director7. Mr Aliu Akoshile as the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of Folio Communications Anosike said ‘’The new board I believe will achieve our vision of Folio Communications becoming the most valuable and impactful media company out of Nigeria. ‘’I thank my numerous pillars and adversaries for this opportunity and almighty God for the grace given me”