Following the unending leadership crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), a former National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and governors elected on the platform of the party to urgently take decisive steps to save APC from disintegration. To stem the ugly leadership crisis in which actors are laying claim to APC chairmanship seat, the former National Chairman urged the National Executive Council to urgently constitute a care-taker committee to steer the aleady nose – diving ship of APC pending the proper convening of the national convention. In a statement titled ‘Before it is too late’, Chief Oyegun on Saturday expressed deep concern that the goodwill upon which APC rode to power in both the 2015 and 2019 general elections are fastly been eroded by display of arrogant powers by certain elements contrary to the progressive principles upon which the party was built and flagrant neglect of the party’s constitution. He added that the party, is fast becoming the single most dangerous threat to the legacy of APC government and President Buhari. Oyegun said those who feel more entitled to the party are no longer capable of hearing alternative viewpoints other than those counselled by their ego and their self-serving interests, which they have promoted over all other considerations, including that of common decency. “As former National Chairman of the party, I remain proud of the great strides of our government, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. However, I am afraid to note that the legacy of a government is defined mostly by its politics rather than its achievements in other areas, no matter how lofty those achievements are. “Unfortunately, what we have witnessed from our party is the steady erosion of even the very basic tenets of democratic principles in a manner that could turn our watershed victory of 2015 to the waterloo of our hard won democracy. “In the last few months we have watched how the party has brazenly subverted its own principles of internal democracy and flagrant violation of every rule of decent political engagement in a manner that makes everyone associated with its promise of change liable to be accused of either hypocrisy or apostasy. “Yet, no political party will survive for long, which is unwilling to accommodate competing ideas and provide the space for healthy debates”. As a major stakeholder and as a founding member of APC, he said he had made various efforts to add his voice to those of several other well-meaning leaders of the party, in ensuring that the ideals and principles they fought for are not completely thrown overboard. Calling President Buhari, the governors and other stakeholders to action to save APC from the brinks, Oyegun said “this statement is therefore a clarion call to leaders of the party, particularly the Governors and Mr. President to urgently bring a stop to the disgraceful and humiliating charade occurring within the National Secretariat of our great party. “There is a most urgent need for the party NEC to meet and institute for the party a Caretaker Committee (even if we have to invoke the doctrine of necessity), whose main responsibility will be to arrange for a special National Convention. “The All Progressives Congress was built on the blood and sweat of Nigerians, young and old, too numerous to count, who were willing to give everything in the service of progressive politics. We must not allow their great sacrifices to go in vain. “Today, almost every member of the party feels a deep sense of alienation and dissatisfaction with the state of the party. It hurts deeply to see how hollow it now rings to mention our party and “change” together. The time to act is now, before it is too late”.