Abuja – The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), has said that the scheme will will only return to the Orientation Camps when it is very safe to do so, in view of the danger posed by COVID-19 pandemic which is still very formidable. This was contained in a statement signed by Director, Press and Public Relations, Adenike Adeyemi, and made available to Journalist in Abuja. This follows online publication alluding that the Scheme would soon resume Orientation programme. She said that even when it has been sufficiently established it is safe to proceed to the camps for the resumption of normal activities, the Corps shall only do so when it has received the nod of the Federal Government. While noting that the Scheme shall never act in anyway that will compromise the safety of Corps Members, camp officials and other stakeholders due to the high premium placed on their lives. “The attention of Management of the National Youth Service Corps has been drawn to an online publication with the above headline, alluding that the Scheme would soon resume Orientation programme. “The NYSC circular in reference is for internal consumption, and aims at guiding the post COVID – 19 operations of the Orientation Camps. “To put issues in proper perspective, it is appropriate to state that the National Youth Service Corps will only return to the Orientation Camps when it is very safe to do so, in view of the danger posed by COVID-19 pandemic which is still very formidable. “The Scheme places very high premium on the lives of Corps Members, camp officials and other stakeholders which was the key reason it suspended 2020 Batch “A” Stream 1 Orientation Programme in March this year, and shall never act in anyway that will compromise their safety. “The Director-General, NYSC, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim admonishes Corps Members and prospective ones to continue strict observance of COVID-19 safety protocols, predicated on social/physical distancing, wearing of face masks, proper washing of the hands for at least twenty seconds, and use of hand sanitiser.” She however, advised Corps Members and prospective Corps Members are advised to glean information concerning the Scheme only from NYSC official sources – both the social and mainstream media.