In the wake of the lifting of the ban on religious centers by the Federal Government, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has provided guidelines that would make it safe to do so. The PTF National Coordinator, Sani Aliyu, said this at the briefing on Tuesday, listing new measures that would mitigate the spread of the virus as religious centres reopen. Places of worship must comply with all non-pharmaceutical measures such as mandatory use of face mask by worshippers, hand washing spots at the entrances, hand sanitizers with at least Sixty percent alcohol content and mandatory temperature checks. Facilities should be structured in a way that physical distancing is observed. Worshippers are advised not to touch each other in a manner such as hugging, shaking, kissing etc. Families are advised to stay together during the worship services. Church/mosque volunteers (ushers, choir, security etc.) that have underlying illnesses should not be allowed to serve. The time for worship services should not be more than one hour. Churches/mosques with high number of worshipers can divide their services into two or three depending on the number to ensure physical distancing, and should have break of at least 30mins between the services to allow worshipers wash their hands or to disinfect the centers. Mosques are to open 20mins before prayers and close 20mins after prayers. No Islamiya schools. Prayer sections should be staggered. Worship centers should have different entry and exit points. No social gatherings before or after services. Business outlets at worship centers should remain closed. The elderly above 55 are advised to observe there worship services at home. Churches/Mosques should improve their environmental hygiene. Windows should be left open during services, as it’s more dangerous to hold services in enclosed places. Open-air services are preferable. There should be frequent cleaning of centres. Surfaces should be cleaned with diluted bleach. Worshipers with COVID19 symptoms should not go to places of worship. Churches/Mosques should keep a record of staff and worshippers for contact tracing purposes. Persons identified with high temperature after a temperature check should be turned back. READ ALSO That murder inside Benin RCCG church It is better to stay at home and worship than to go to worship centers.