Nigerian music star, Innocent Idibia (a.k.a 2face) has eulogized legendary Reggae star, Majek Fashek, a.k.a rain maker, who died after battling with cancer for nearly a year in London on Tuesday. Mr Uzoma Omenka, his manager confirmed Majek Fashek’s death on the singer’s Instagram page on Tuesday, he died at age of 57 as he was born March 7, 1963. 2face on Thursday on his Instagram account  said: ‘Woke up 2 this sad news. Bless u MAJEK FASHEK. many of the new school artist might not grasp your importance, but I appreciate what u represent in naija music history. RIP LION. States’ll no longer get refunds for repairing federal roads – FG He also sad that: ‘I know u and BABA FELA and RAS KIMONO and ORLANDO OWO and SUNNY OKOSUN and OLIVER DE COQUE are reminiscing about the good old days.Bless u all and many more that paved the way. Your struggles shall never be in vain !!!. Woke up 2 this sad news. Bless u MAJEK FASHEK. many of the new school artist might not grasp your importance but I appreciate what u represent in naija music history. RIP LION. I know u and BABA FELA and RAS KIMONO and ORLANDO OWO and SUNNY OKOSUN and OLIVER DE COQUE are reminiscing about the good old days. Bless u all and many more that paved the way. Your struggles shall never be in vain !!!. A post shared by  Innocent Idibia (@official2baba) on Jun 3, 2020 at 10:15pm PDT Also maverick Nigerian showbiz maestro and activist, Charles Oputa, a.k.a Charlyboy, has paid tribute to late Nigerian music legend Majek Fashek, popularly known as ‘The Rainmaker’, describing him as a “ Lyrical Wizard”. He extolled the late reggae icon in an interview  on Wednesday in Abuja. According to Charlyboy, Fashek was a revolutionary musician whose music send messages that addressed social issues that affects society. The former president of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria (PMAN) said he came in contact with the late artiste over three decades ago and worked together in the early days of their music careers. “My father came from Lagos to Oguta, my home town, along with Majek Fashek, and he spent one good year with me. “In fact, he sketched his hit song ‘Send down the Rain’ in my small studio then in the village, where I also learnt a lot from him about music. “Majek was both handsome and talented as a music artiste, and he was a lyrical wizard because his lyrics were so powerful and revolutionary. “There were other talented musicians during his era, but the message in his songs are so on point and that is why I so much admired him,” he said. The ‘Areafada’ noted that although Fashek was no more, his songs will remain timeless because of the inspiration behind the lyrics. He however prayed that God should grant the family of the departed artiste the strength to forge ahead, as death is an inevitable debt every mortal must pay. Majek Fashek, born Majekodunmi Fasheke to  a Benin mother and an Ijesha father (Osun State), had a legendary music career that spanned over three decades before his demise at age of 57. He was best known for his 1988 album ‘Prisoners of Conscience’, which consists of the acclaimed song ‘Send Down the Rain’, a hit that earned him the moniker ‘The Rainmaker”. Some of the musical hits that defined Fashek’s career include ‘So Long, Too Long’ which was released in1991 with a strong political and pan-African message, and ‘Free Mandela, Free Africa’, his anti-apartheid anthem. Others are ‘Majek Fashek Ina Newyork’,  a song about his experience the first time he visited New York, which later became his second home; ‘Religion Na Politics’, a hit in his 2012 album, ‘I & I Experience’. In 2015, Fashek was reported bankrupt and battling drug addiction, and was admitted into a drug rehabilitation centre in Abuja where he recovered and returned to music. 