The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has been rated top on transparency, accountability and due process in her operations according to a 2020 poll conducted by the Mahatma Ghandi Peace Foundation in collaboration with The Winston Churchill Centre For Investigative Journalism. About 453 federal government departments, agencies and parastatals were part of the poll, a joint press statement signed by the country director of Mahatma Ghandi Peace Foundation Nigeria, Bishop Abel Kings and and Richard Oduma of the Winston Churchill Centre For Investigative Journalism has said. The organisations extolled the due process mechanism put in place by the management of the Central Bank of Nigeria stating that as foreign organisations, their focus was to promote and instill probity and accountability virtues in government agencies hence the polls. “Our trademark is to discourage corruption and ensure due process mechanisms at all strata of public life particularly in developing economies such as Nigeria. The Central Bank of Nigeria as a critical stakeholder in the Nigeria economic project is a prime agency to focus on if we are to achieve our development goals for the nation”, the statement noted. It further stated that they were satisfied with the nation’s apex bank thorough internal mechanisms put in place to minimize fraud and abuse of internal processes. ” The polls were conducted in about 453 federal government agencies, following independent audit on promotions, award of contracts, recruitments, and general policy direction templates of various organisations including the CBN. “Among the many organizations covered include, the Nigeria Army, the Department of State Security, National Information Technology Development Agency, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, NIPPS, NAFDAC and the NUC among others. “The Central Bank has however led the polls based on systematic reviews from the two coordinating international organisations having scored high on all indices and templates for the polls. “This presentation is imminent especially at this auspicious time for the nation as the country prepares to resume the economy from the intermittent breaks occasioned by the Covid 19 global health emergency. This great feat by the management of the Central Bank Of Nigeria will sure reinforce confidence of investors both at the local and international levels in Nigeria and her economy. “We are pleased and satisfied if the nations apex bank is leading in due process and accountability reforms, it then means Nigeria is on the right trajectory to economic stability. The statement averred. The two groups also called on other agencies of government to focus on instilling the values of transparency and due process as championed by the CBN. Every Nigerian has a responsibility to ask questions in the affairs of this country, and only transparency can guarantee those obligations. “This poll is a product of long weeks of painstaking independent audit and investigations of the nations most critical agencies hence the need for this Press enlightenment. Gentleman of the press, you also have a duty to amplify the positive dimensions of the polls so as to bolster confidence in the Nigeria economic system and her recovery. “At times such as the country is faced with many challenges, we need to be circumspect in guiding against public misinformation and smear campaign against critical agencies as much as possible particularly from the point of information backed with data and verifiable statistics. This is what our organizations seeks to achieve. The statement further read. “As independent international organisations with a rich history and great reputation for excellence, the Central Banks performance rating has reinforced our trust in the pursuit of our developmental objectives and principles as unbiased empires in the development agenda. “By this great feat, the management of the CBN is expected to focus on the challenge of maintaining the tempo so as to surpass current heights as far as due process and transparency reforms are concerned without losing focus amidst distractions. “The two international groups further announced the nomination of the CBN management for the “Winston Churchill Memorial Award on Transparency” as a mark of honor and symbol for the ideals of the two organizations represent. “This polls has confirmed that with the current management in place at the Central Bank of Nigeria, the nations economy is sure to achieve the projected heights. ” We urge individuals of influence, opinion leaders, civil society groups to support and insist on transparency rather than seek avenues to drag authorities in the mud without seeking necessary clarifications, the statement concluded.