Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State has said that nine persons have died of Coronavirus disease in the state. Obiano said this in an address to the people of the state on Wednesday. He said a total of 302 samples had been collected from Anambra by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), out of which 230 results were released and 53 returned positive. He said 13 patients had been discharged and 31 cases still active while seven patients were receiving treatment at the moment. The governor said the cause of seven out of the nine deaths were confirmed through postmortem tests as the patients did not go to the treatment centres while they were still alive. He said most of the deceased were 60 years and above with just one of them being 24 years of age. “In other words, they did not come to our Protective Care Centre for professional management. “This is why I must warn that delay is often dangerous in the management of COVID-19 cases. “People who show symptoms of this deadly virus are advised to report their conditions early as it increases their chances of surviving this pandemic. “I must also inform you that almost 90 per cent of the people that have died from COVID-19 in our state are aged from 60 years and above. “It is, therefore, important that people who fall into this age category who are said to have what the experts call co-mobility, should maintain a high level of vigilance to minimise chances of their exposure to the virus,” he stated. Obiano reminded residents of Anambra of the recently promulgated Anambra COVID-19 and other Dangerous Diseases Prevention and Eradication Law which had come into effect, reiterating that it was an offence to move about without facemasks. “I will advise everyone to remain calm, there is no need to panic. “If we continue to carry out all the safety measures outlined in the COVID-19 protocol by both the World Health Organisation (WHO), and the NCDC, we shall survive this pandemic. “We are determined to ensure that anyone who flouts this law will be brought to judgment. “My people, I advise everyone to ensure the strictest compliance with this law,” he stated.