Boxing superstar, Floyd Mayweather, has revealed his willingness to pay for the funeral services for George Floyd. Leonard Ellerbe, CEO of Mayweather Promotions, made this known on Monday. According to Ellerbe in an interview with ESPN, “He’ll probably get mad at me for saying that, but yes, [Mayweather] is definitely paying for the funeral. Floyd has done these kinds of things over the last 20 years”. READ ALSO: Top award-winning songs of late Majek Fashek that encouraged Human rights He disclosed that Floyd’s family has accepted the offer. Recall, Mayweather paid for the funeral expenses of Genaro Hernandez. He won his first world title by defeating Hernandez in 1998. Meanwhile, post-mortems have pronounced the death of an American, George Floyd, 46, a homicide. Independent experts hired by George Floyd’s family and the Hennepin County Medical Examiner carried out the autopsies. But they gave different reasons for the cause on Monday. Floyd, according to the independent autopsy, died of “asphyxiation from sustained pressure” when his neck and back were pressed by Minneapolis police officers. It added that pressure cut off blood flow to his brain. The medical examiner’s office did not mention asphyxiation. It said the cause was “cardiopulmonary arrest complicating law enforcement subdual, restraint, and neck compression”. Cardiopulmonary (cardiac) arrest means heart failure. “Whether or not he was intoxicated or had medications in his system is irrelevant to the cause of death, which is homicide, which is death by the hand of another. The end result, which is George Floyd’s death, would not be any different”, Floyd family attorney Antonio Romanucci told CNN. Dismissed police officer, Derek Chauvin, had his knee on Floyd’s neck for 8 minutes and 46 seconds, and 2 minutes and 53 seconds after he was unresponsive, criminal complaint says. One of the independent medical examiners, Dr. Michael Baden, said: “There is no other health issue that could cause or contribute to the death. Police have this false impression that if you can talk, you can breathe. That’s not true.” Chauvin has been charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. The family and protesters across the United States want him and the three other officers in the videos charged with first-degree murder. (DAILY POST)