A staff of Covenant University, Miss Chinyere Ononiwu of the Corporate Affairs unit of the University has sensitised some Lagos residents on how to survive COVID-19. Miss Ononiwu, founder of Beulah World Initiative (BWI), a Non-Governmental Organisation with focus on the emancipation of the underprivileged in the society, stepped up her outreach programme on the highly dreaded COVID-19 pandemic with a visit to Idimu in the Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos State. The enlightenment programme with the theme ‘Surviving the COVID-19 Pandemic’, was held at a facility on Nojimu Rufai Street, Idimu. The event drew participants from many households in the community, who were educated on the genesis of coronavirus, how people could contract COVID-19, ways to prevent being infected and how to feed well to maintain high immunity levels to ensure adequate protection against the virus. Miss Chinyere Ononiwu, the Founder of BWI, had during her speech at the occasion introduced the organisation and its vision of ameliorating the plights of disadvantaged communities in Africa, with Nigeria as the starting point. She encouraged the participants, who were predominantly widows, to have hope of a better tomorrow and not be discouraged by the prevailing socio-economic situation in the country. Her words: “Losing your husbands is not the end of life; you must remain positive-minded and believe that the best is yet to come”. A health worker, Deaconess Abigail Egharevba, educated participants on the preventive measures to take against coronavirus, while another health worker, Deaconess Abatan, provided information on what to do to strengthen one’s immunity against coronavirus. BWI, after the presentations, gave out groceries to the participants as a token of support. Some of the participants, who couldn’t attend physically, sent their kids to pick up their palliatives. Before the commencement of the outreach, organisers had in conformity with specifications of the Lagos State Government sectioned participants into three gatherings. They had to take the first batch and then usher in the next until they attended to all the participants who were mostly widows. A participant, Elizabeth Abudu, thanked God for the opportunity and appreciated BWI for taking time out to enlighten people in her community. “I now have more knowledge concerning COVID-19 and a lot of preventive measures to be taken. I appreciate,” she enthused. Another participant, Michael, in his testimony, gave glory to God for the privilege afforded him to be a beneficiary of the outreach. He thanked BWI for the knowledge impacted in participants, especially that of living healthy and eating good food. He was also thankful for the palliatives and prayed that God would reward every member of the NGO. Adaeze Chioma Anthony, stated: “l am one of the widows that benefitted from this NGO, and l want to thank God for the opportunity and the NGO for taking out time to enlighten us and also bless us, May God richly reward you. We had enlightenment on how to prevent COVID-19, and l have more knowledge about COVID 19 now. We had a lot of examples to help us live our normal life without being infected. Once again, l want to appreciate the NGO that organised this programme. To God alone be all the glory for making it a success!” While expressing her gratitude to the Beulah World Initiative for the food items donated and the health talk on coronavirus, Funmilayo Ayeni said that she would not forget the experience, and the impact would linger for a long time. I appreciate, more grease to your elbows,” she quipped. Funmi Shittu Idowu appreciated the efforts of Beulah World Initiative at educating the participants on COVID-19, including the essential health tips given to her to live a healthy life. She also appreciated the food items donated. “I am a beneficiary of the health talk programme held by the Beulah world initiative last Sunday,” said Bola Adekahunsi. “I’m grateful for the enlightenment on Covid-19 and the various health tips given to us. It was an eye-opener.” In her testimony, Lydia Sunday said she was one of the people that benefited from the programme held by the Beulah World Initiative. She thanked God for the lectures and the food items shared. Favour Uloh, yet another participant, said: “I give all the glory to God for using the Beulah World Initiative to teach me all I know now about coronavirus, and about the type of food I can eat and how to prepare my vegetables. I also thank them for the food items given to me. May God that found this group continue to keep and strengthen them.”