As air traffic picks up, Air France is gradually reinforcing its flight schedule for summer 2020. The airline said that by the end of June, the flight schedule will represent 20 per cent of the capacity usually deployed over this period. Subject to the lifting of travel restrictions, the gradual increase in the number of frequencies and destinations will continue, reaching 35 per cent of the flight schedule initially planned in July and 40 per cent in August. Air France said it plans to serve close to 150 destinations, that is 80 per cent of its usual network, with priority given to strengthening its domestic network. Several routes will resume between Paris and the French regions, as well as inter-regional routes, particularly to and from Corsica. The number of services will also be increased to the French overseas departments and territories, as well as to Europe, mainly to Spain, Greece, Italy and Portugal. Long-haul services will gradually resume on a large part of the network, both for passenger and cargo transport, which is particularly buoyant. According to a statement from the airline’s office in Lagos, the flight schedule will be operated by 106 of the 224 aircraft in the Air France fleet. “We can see that people need to travel again and will gradually be resuming services to 150 destinations in France, Europe and the rest of the world this summer. After this difficult period, we are delighted to be welcoming our customers back on board, so that they can travel this summer and be reunited with their loved ones. All Air France staff, both on the ground and onboard, are committed to guaranteeing our passengers the highest levels of health & safety”, said Air France CEO Anne Rigail. The airline added that this flight schedule is subject to change and remains subject to obtaining the required government authorization. It will take into account the current health and hygiene measures in various countries or destinations served. Updating the flight schedule will result in the cancellation of bookings for flights that are not operated. Commercial measures, which can be consulted online at airfrance.com and at all sales points, will enable the customers concerned to postpone their trip free of charge or to cancel it, by requesting a bonus voucher or a ticket refund. Before travelling, Air France recommends its customers contact the relevant authorities to check the entry and travel requirements for their destination and transit countries, which may have changed due to the COVID-19 epidemic. Air France reminds customers that surgical masks must be worn on all its flights and that temperature, checks are carried out prior to boarding, adding that daily aircraft cleaning operations have been stepped up and a specific procedure for the regular disinfection of cabins with an approved virucidal spray has been introduced.