First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced that its all-female online community www.firstgem.com.ng offers mentoring, support and capacity building opportunities for all to create a new generation of financially literate women. The bank at the weekend said that it determined to increase its engagement and reach a wider audience, an online repository for its FirstGem product, which was created and designed to provide a virtual online community where like-minded women irrespective of where they are in Nigeria and abroad, gather to connect, grow and share knowledge on everything about lifestyle, parenting, career development, entrepreneurship, health, work and family. According to the lender, financial empowerment and wealth creation ideas are shared to encourage women to play their part in providing financial support for their families. It further explained that the portal provides varied contents ranging from Blog stories to Vlogs, Newsletters, Chat rooms which are built on 6 pillars – Health, Wealth and Finance, Food and Recipes, Events, Entrepreneurship, Lifestyle and Beauty. The FirstGem online community presently has over 61,634 members are drawn from all walks of life sharing ideas, insights and experiences. The Group Executive, e-Business & Retail Products, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Chuma Ezirim said, “FirstGem is suited for the Nigerian woman, and we are using this online community as the ideal opportunity to position the Bank’s gender initiatives to meet the required needs on a wide range of issues affecting women from lifestyle, skills acquisition, finances, wealth acquisition and management, business support, etc. How Tiv militia killed 3 of my children on the Farm – Salome shares her story “We encourage all women to join the community by signing up via this link https://firstgem.com.ng/community to enjoy this experience”, she said. FirstGem is a gender-specific account designed to meet the needs of women, aged 18 years and above. It is targeted at a broad spectrum of women, working professionals, entrepreneurs and MSMEs with a view to promoting growth via an array of benefits, from free business advisory services, regular information or insights on business opportunities in various sectors and industries, as well as mouth-watering discounts at partnered stores and outlets. FirstGem has successfully empowered women in states across the geo-political zones in Nigeria and the UK.