The founder and General Overseer of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), Prophet T.B Joshua has sent a fresh message to the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump. Prophet T.B Joshua warned President Trump of security issues arising “from the ending of June” which will surpass the current national unrest triggered by the death of George Floyd, who was murdered by Derek Chauvin, a white police officer in Minneapolis. The cleric entitled the message he shared during his live Sunday service, “My message to President Donald Trump on security issues,” recalling that he had prophesied what is happening currently happening in the US during his prophecy for 2020. Following the killing of George Floyd, many Americans especially the black race have taken to the streets to protest over police brutality with several US states activating National Guard troops. Prohet T.B Joshua said that a similar situation would occur again in June ending and warned that it could affect the coming US election. “During my prophecy for 2020 released on 28th December 2019; prophecy number four concerning America was given as follows: ‘Approach to the security issue will affect the candidates and swing voters in the next election,’” he said. “President Trump, this is what is happening now. Another one is coming. President Trump, wake up to checkmate this. It will go beyond this. Another one is coming, starting from the ending of June.” The cleric noted that the people perish where there is no vision, pointing out that during Trump’s regime, the name of Jesus has been given more honour. Quote“What glory! Let us look beyond our palace for God’s authority. With God, all things are possible! Let us act now,” Joshua said. “It is not all up to God; we have a role to play. More appeals to the people and security are required in a language that will douse the tension and stop this situation – so we can then commit the future one into God’s hands.” READ ALSO Domestic flights may resume June 21 – FG KanyiDaily had published a video that shows how George Floyd died during arrest, after a white police officer pinned him to the ground by pressing his knee into Floyd’s neck as the black man repeatedly said, “I can’t breathe.”