The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has berated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the state for accusing Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the APC of committing electoral offence, by commencing the 2023 re-election campaign, when the election umpire is yet to give a go ahead, saying that the governor would not be distracted by what it described as ‘idle politicking’ by the PDP. In a statement by the Lagos APC Publicity Secretary, Mr Seye Oladejo, the party stated that it was not surprised by the discomfort of the opposition party who was left in awe of the commendable performance of Sanwo-Olu who had excelled in all ramifications barely a year into his four years tenure, stating that the commencement of 2023 elections only exists in the warped, mischievous and idle imagination of the PDP. The party stressed that “The rising profile of Mr. Governor should give the moribund opposition party some headache especially the Lagos State government internationally acknowledged response to the novel COVID 19 pandemic. “The governor has not only provided the desired leadership at an unprecedentedly trying time, he has become a reference point for responsive and responsible governance. It’s also worthy of note that other important sectors have not suffered neglect as a result of the pandemic challenge. “Mr Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu remains focused on delivering on his electoral promises to his teeming populace and refused to be distracted by idle politicking,” APC said. The statement reads further “We regard the press statement by the PDP as their usual tantrums, distractive politics and sound and fury meaning nothing. “We will not dignify such unsubstantiated issues any more with a response as a serious party that is busy with meeting the needs of our people.” It will be recalled that the PDP had accused Governor Sanwo-Olu and the APC in Lagos State of commencing re-election campaigns ahead of the statutory timetable yet to be released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The PDP through its State Publicity Secretary, Mr Taofik Gani, also called on the INEC to suo motu disqualify the governor as a person and the APC from eligibility to contest the governorship election in the 2003 general elections. According to the PDP in Lagos State, the INEC must assert its authority and control of the electoral process by enforcing its rules irrespective of the persons or institutions concerned in breaking the rules. The party further stated that the INEC must also go after all the persons and associations behind the illegal campaigns to arrest and prosecute them for electoral offence in line with the electoral Act. “This will show the INEC as serious to fairly manage the 2003 general elections,” the PDP said. The opposition party further stated that its outcry and demand was on the heels of the deliberate public announcements ; jingles; Newspaper adverts directly and indirectly sponsored by the governor, his supporters, groups and the APC announcing Sanwo-Olu as a performer-governor within his first year in office and should be supported for re-election.