. Giadom writes INEC on Edo primary The leadership crisis that hit the All Progressives Congress (APC), as a fallout of the Edo State governorship primary may have gotten worse as Rivers State chapter of the ruling party has suspended its acting chairman Igo Aguma. Aguma was suspended yesterday over alleged disobedience to the spirit and letters of the High Court judgement that appointed him as the chairman. Meanwhile, another another party member, Sokonte Davies, has now been appointed to take over in acting caretaker capacity in Rivers State. This is even as the embattled Deputy National Secretary of the party, who is the court appointed acting national chairman, Victor Giadom has written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), urging it to disregard the party’s just concluded governorship primary in Edo State. Aguma’s suspension came on the heels of internal leadership crisis which has left the ruling party in shambles from national headquarters. It would be recalled that the squabbles in the APC leadership ran into a sharp curve on Sunday, June 21, as Giadom was suspended by the Rivers State chapter of the ruling party. Giadom, who imposed himself as the chairman of the party, following a court ruling in March, after Adams Oshiomhole’s suspension was upheld by an appeal court amid ranging crises in APC, was sanctioned over allegations of gross disobedience to the APC constitution, by the Rivers State chapter, his home state, a suspension which Giadom described as “ineffective and contemptuous.” Meanwhile, Giadom has been replaced by Worgu Boms, as nominated by his state and sworn-in on yesterday, However, in his letter addressed to the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, which was received by the electoral body on Monday, Giadom said “as the acting chairman” of the APC, he did not authorise the exercise in Edo. He said INEC should not give support to direct primary election conducted by a committee chaired by Hope Uzodinma, the governor of Imo State. He wrote, “Kindly note that as the acting chairman of our party, I did not authorise such a committee, neither have I inaugurated one. “You are, therefore, advised not to give any support to any such committee or to monitor any such primaries.” While Giadom accepted that the party had fixed June 22 to conduct the exercise, he, however, said that the primary had been rescheduled and a new date would be communicated to INEC soon. Giadom said he had equally sent a copy of the letter to the relevant law enforcement agencies and the Anslem Ojezua led Edo executive of the APC.