The House of Representatives member representing Ujumu, Bunu and Kabba Federal Constituency of Kogi state, Rep Tajudeen Yusuf on Sunday advised Governor Yaya Bello to take responsibility and tackle COVID-19 pandemic headlong in Kogi state. In a statement issued on Sunday, Rep. Yusuf said testing hasn’t been extensively, carried out in the state and that palliatives have also not been shared to the poor, and vulnerable by the state government. “There’s need to tell the governor to take responsibility and stop the shenanigans as playing the ostrich cannot save Kogi from the pandemic. “As we speak, the Kogi sate government has not given a grain of rice or any palliative since the beginning of the pandemic. Whatever palliatives the people have received came from National Assembly members, state legislators, community development association and private individuals. “Even the food items sent by the federal government have not been shared. “No single test center and  I am sure many would have died of COVID- 19 without knowing and many would been healed without also knowing,” he said. Rep. Yusuf commended the family of the Chief Imam of Kabba, Sheikh Ahmad Ejibunu for their timely alert that confirmed the Islamic leader as the index case of COVID-19 in Kogi state. “The people of Kabba feel proud of our chief imam and members of his family; what is now left is for the state government to accept the ugly reality of COVID-19 in Kogi state so that the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) and other relevant bodies can swiftly commence efforts to help nip the problem in the bud. “The coronavirus disease has ravaged all parts of the world, with more than 100, 000 lives lost in the USA which has some of the world’s best medical system. So, in Kogi where the number of available hospital beds and other resources are limited, our best chance is to prevent a spread. “We should all rise beyond the divide of politics, faith and ethnicity. And I join my voice to that of all concerned citizens calling for a united and effective war against COVID-19 so that all men, women and children of Kogi state can live long and productive lives. “With proper and timely sensitization, we can encourage social distancing, hand-washing, testing and other suggestions from the NCDC. “NCDC has confirmed that as at May 30, Kogi state has two COVID-19 positive cases and we must all passionately pray for their survival, but Kogi state must now rise up against COVID-19 and immediately, cease to play the proverbial ostrich that buries its head in the sand at the approach of danger,” Rep. Yusuf stated.