Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with government and people of Oyo State over the passing of  former governor, Isiaka Abiola Ajimobi, whose contributions to the development of the state, and nation, will always be remembered. In a condolence message released by his spokesman, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Thursday, the President commiserated with the family of the former governor, who served the country as a Senator, 2003, before winning the governorship election in 2011. The president noted that the deceased remained steadfast and consistent in his progressive views, and working assiduously for the creation of the All Progressives Congress. According to him, Ajimobi, aged 70,  left the world at a crucial moment when the party and the country needed his counsels to heal and grow, noting that his absence would be sorely felt by all associates, particularly in the APC. The President prayed that the almighty God would comfort the family of the former governor, and grant him a peaceful rest. Also the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has expressed sadness over the demise of former governor of Oyo State, Sen. Abiola Ajimobi. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement, signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, on Thursday described the death of Ajimobi as a great loss to his family, the people of the Oyo State and the country as a whole. He said that Ajimobi’s death, after all efforts by medical professionals to stabilise him when he took ill, had opened a deep sore in the hearts of millions of Nigerians who looked up to him as a rallying point and a political stabiliser. ”The passage of Senator Ajimobi hurt me. My heart was filled with grief when I was informed that I had lost another political icon in our battle against the coronavirus. ”Senator Ajimobi was more than a politician, he was a man of many parts whose managerial skills and experience are required at this critical period in our national life. ”Senator Ajimobi was a distinguished Nigerian who bestrode the economic and political space of the country like a colossus. He made his mark in the corporate world before venturing into politics. ”As first elected governor to serve two terms in Oyo State, his achievements will remain indelible in the annals of political history of that state and Nigeria as a whole,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor commiserated with the deceased’s family, saying that the death of loved ones was usually one of the most painful episodes in peoples’ lives although death was inevitable. ”We all will die someday. Therefore we must gather enough strength to carry on. ”It is with heavy heart that I commiserate with his beloved wife, Mrs Florence Ajimobi, the children and other family members he left behind. My heart and prayers are with you all at this period of your grief. May God comfort you. ”May Allah grant the soul of late Isiaka Ajimobi eternal rest and preserve a place for him in Aljanah Firdaus,” he said.