Death has reared its ugly heard once again. Highlife legend, Nana Tuffour a.k.a. 9-9-2-4 is dead. Yes, Nana Tuffour has sadly passed on. A source close to the 66-year-old confirmed his passing to Andy Dosty, host of Daybreak Hitz on Hitz FM, Monday. The 66-year-old Musician, Nana Tuffour died after a short illness, and his body is now at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital Mortuary. According to the source, the singer who released ‘Abasa Komu’ this year has been sick for some time now. James Kwaku Tuffour a.k.a Nana Tuffour a.k.a. 9-9-2-4 was born on Valentines Day 1954. He crooned his way into the hearts of many women over the years with is sweat and smooth ballads. Nana Tuffour released his first album Highlife Romance and has since released twelve other hit albums. He has won many excellence awards and his last album, Abeiku was notoriously popular among the old and the young. The ‘Abeiku’ hitmaker spent his childhood in Kumasi. Growing up, he was surrounded by resourceful relatives which gave him the opportunity to enjoy music from all around the world while at home. The man popularly known as 9-9-2-4 recently lost a blood brother with whom he is very close to. Although the late brother remains in the morgue due to Covid-19, sources close to the family suspect grief may have fast-tracked the crooner’s demise. His last last recording was done and has just started airplay this year. Perhaps James Nana Tuffour’s birth on Valentine’s Day in 1954 was his secret rise to stardom. The renowned highlife singer/songwriter rose to fame in an era when intelligence scored substantially more points than good looks. Affectionately called Nana at home, he kicked off his musical journey with one of the country’s best keyboardist Alex Konadu popularly known as ‘one-man thousand.’ The ace singer with over 15 albums to his credit later joined the Wanto Wazuri Band as a pianist. For someone with great vocals and unique lyrics, Nana Tuffour later became the front man of the Waza Africo Band. In no time he was envisioning a solo album, a reason for which he sojourned in Nigeria. In Nigeria, he began working with legendary Nigerian musician King Sunny Ade as his keyboardist. READ ALSO Real Madrid return with convincing win over Eibar In 1979 he released his first album Highlife Romance followed by many other hit albums. A countless number of Nana Tuffour’s songs were recorded at Bodo Staiger’s Rheinklang studio in Duesseldorf, where also many other highlife stars from Ghana had produced their hits.