Worried by the increasing number of rape in Nigeria, a non governmental organization (NGO), has lamented that sexual violence is yet to be considered as serious security issues, jeopardising the future of teenagers. The non-governmental agency otherwise known as Justice and Security Dialogue (JSD), decried that as serious as the case of rape, the Nigeria Police in Plateau State, has only one functional “gender desk” in the State, to attend to  the growing ill. NAPTIP records 29 human trafficking, sexual abuse cases in Kano State Speaking in a well comprehensive article, made available to our correspondent in Jos, on Monday, the Program Coordinator, JSD/USIP, Mrs. Kemakolam Isioma, expressed that, even when the issue of rape takes the center stage of discussion, it still dose not rank high as a priority. “To really see change, we need to see shifts in how the government, police and others, understand sexual violence as a security issue that impacts everyone and the society”, she said Isioma gave reasons why the JSD/USIP, supported the police and other vulnerable communities by setting up the gender desk, saying it was aimed at tackling the growing and ravaging trend of rape. “COVID-19 if nothing, highlighted this issue more, creating awareness on this plague called rape. Therefore, the police gender desk set up by the JSD project of USIP is very timely and positioned to support both the police, community, NGOs and other service providers to handle professionally, the resultant upsurge in cases that may be reported. “Police play a very crucial role in ensuring justice to victims, so it is important to give them all the support they need to respond effectively to SGBV”, she emphasised. Consequently, throwing more light to the menace, the JSD Coordinator, said, the current COVID-19 pandemic has brought to fore the issue and there are increased discussions around it as a ‘shadow pandemic’ which now proves to be a catalyst for action. “But how prepared is the police: What kind of response should survivors expect or get from the police: How many of our officers are trained to professionally respond to this scourge?”, Isioma queried.