Prof. Ikpeze has replied Mrs Funke Adekoya (SAN) over her comments on minimum wage allocations for lawyers.In his reply, he said  “I am compelled to reply Mrs. Funke Adekoya SAN so as to put the records straight and to state that she was the one that conveyed a misinformation to the public and not Adeke Aondongu Abel Esq. My humble self and Mrs. Adekoya SAN were National Officers of the Association and members of the National Executive Committee at the material time. “We, as members of the Bar, and particularly Senior Members, must be able to draw the line between playing politics and misrepresentation of facts. We are not politicians. “We are Lawyers. Why Mrs. Funke Adekoya SAN had to deny one of the achievements of the administration in which she was the 1st Vice President, only she can tell,”Prof. Ikpeze’s reply came as a result of Adekoya’s stand on a post by one Adeke Abel on why there should be a minimum wage for young lawyers and the need for their welfare to be catered for by the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA).Adeke Aondongu Abel speaking on NBA Elections 2020 and Salaries of Young Lawyers said  “Sometime in 2002, a successful motion was raised before the NBA NEC for a minimum wage for Lawyers. One of the current aspirants for the Office of the NBA President was instrumental to that decision as the then General Secretary of the NBA. “Till date, no other administration has improved on the little achievements of that administration. Unlike other aspirants who are making promises, Dele Adesina SAN has actually been successful in ensuring a minimum wage for generality of lawyers in Nigeria, and I am sure he can do it again.”However Mrs Adekoya decided to reply him on the post and disagree with his position in some areas.She stated: “I have read the article. The young Lawyer who wrote it was misinformed. I was the 1st Vice-President of the NBA when Dele Adesina was General Secretary and Wole Olanipekun was President. We did not institute or mandate any minimum wage for Lawyers during our tenure.”Prof. Ikpeze seeked to differ from Mrs. Adekoya’s assertion., According to him, “Mrs. Adekoya was very wrong in her assertion and Adeke stated the absolute facts. Contrary to Mrs. Adekoya SAN’s wrong assertion that there was no mandate on any minimum wage for Lawyers during our tenure, I want to remind her that this was one of the highly deliberated policies of that administration and both of us were National Officers. I was the 2nd Assistant General Secretary.,”