The spokesperson for the Coalition of United Political Parties, Ikenga Ugochinyere, has been arrested by the Nigeria Police Force His arrest is at the instance of Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Ugochinyere was arrested at his residence in Abuja on Thursday and still being held at the a police facility in Maitama, Abuja, as at the time of this report. The FCT High Court sitting in Bwari, Abuja has ordered the inspector-general of police and the director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS) not to arrest the Spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Mr Ikenga Ugochinyere. Justice Othman Musa, who gave the order on Thursday in Bwari, said the police and DSS should not give effect to the directives of the House of Representatives to arrest Ugochinyere. Recall that  Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja  withdrew from the suit filed by the Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP, and its spokesperson Ikenga Ugochinyere against Speaker of the House of Representatives. Ugochinyere filed led the case against Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila challenging the ongoing moves by the lawmakers to summon him before the House Ad how Committee led by Henry Nwawuba over the probe of 10 million dollars bribery allegation. Justice Taiwo returned the case file of the suit to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court. The CUPP spokesman had alleged that the leadership of the house collected $10 million bribe from Bill Gates to pass the Infectious Disease Bill pending before the house. But the leadership of the house in it’s response to the allegation, set up a committee to investigate it. Ugochinyere on his part rushed to the court to stop the probe. The speaker, through his counsel, Mr Kayode Ajulo, filed a preliminary objection to challenge the suit. When the matter came up on June 4 the judge, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, frowned at what he described as misrepresentation of facts in the matter. After expressing his displeasure, he withdrew from the matter and returned the case file to the Chief Judge for reassignment. 