Key persons and institutions invited to testify  at the hearing of an adhoc committee set up by the Lagos State House of Assembly to hear allegations of corruption made against the Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, on Thursday, shunned the sitting. Among those invited by the committee to appear before it on Thursday but failed to appear include SaharaReporters, Mr. Babajide Otitoju of TVC, Mr. Bayo Oluwasanmi, BudgIt, Concerned Nigerians, Adeola Fayehun of Keeping It Real, The Independent Diaspora Nigerians Against Corruption and Human and Environmental Development Agenda. READ ALSO: NCDC records 350 new cases of COVID-19, total now 11516 Addressing journalists and other members of the Adhoc Committee raised by the House on the matter, Chairman of the Committee, Hon. Victor Akande stated that the Committee was constituted for a fact-finding mission on the allegations made against Speaker Mudashiru Obasa so that the invited groups and persons could substantiate their allegations. Members of the committee include Hon. Rotimi Olowo, Shomolu 1, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu, Eti Osa 2 and Hon. Yinka Ogundimu, Agege 2. Others are Hon. Lukmon Olumoh, Ajeromi/Ifelodun 1, Hon. Ajani Owolabi, Lagos Mainland 1 and Hon. Mojisola Alli Macaulay, Amuwo Odofin 1 Akande said, “We still have tomorrow, Friday and Saturday for the petitioners to come around. I want to thank you for your patience and for being prompt with your attendance. “This is not the first time that we are having this kind of issue. It has happened in the National Assembly before. “It is an allegation; we cannot just go to court. We have to find out the facts and figures. It is not just against the Speaker of the House. “The House once investigated an issue against the former Governor of the state. We must build something on something for us to have a cause of action,” he said. Hon. Akande revealed that SaharaReporters, which he said is the most important party in the matter, received and acknowledged the receipt of the invite of the House through their email address. He added that most of the invitees did not have permanent addresses, and that the House sent invitations to them through their email addresses, and the means they used to make their allegations against the Speaker.