…Says printing of result notification slip is free …Caution candidates against fraudulent elements masquerading as JAMB agents Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja Candidates in the just-concluded 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) can now print their result notification slips, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has said. The board in its weekly bulletin made available to journalists on Monday disclosed that candidates can now print their result notification slip anywhere in the country even from the comfort of their homes once there is internet access. The Board also advised candidates to be wary of fraudulent elements masquerading as JAMB agents stating that it has not mandated any person or group to do the printing on behalf of the Board. The examination body also informed that printing of the result notification slip is free as it is different from the original result slip that comes with the candidate’s picture. It disclosed that all the candidates needs to do after visiting the site is to click on QUICK LINKS, then on “E-Facility” where the candidate would be required to provide his/her registration details. ‘’Details and the result notification slip would be displayed for printing after following the procedure’’, JAMB said. The board stated that the results, which had earlier been made available through text to candidates on request by them sending RESULT to “55019” but are now requesting for a printed version can now be printed free from the Board website: www.jamb.gov.ng. ‘’The Board has, until now, restricted the printing of result notification slips and had made it available to candidates only through SMS to avoid anxiety on the part candidates as well as prevent clustering at cybercafes with the attendant risk of COVID-19 contagion all in a bid to print result notifications. ‘’This new development, however, is predicated on the gradual easing of the lockdown and resumption of economic activities in most parts of the country. ‘’The Board wishes to advise candidates to be wary of fraudulent elements masquerading as JAMB agents stating that it has not mandated any person or group to do the printing on behalf of the Board. Candidates are to note also that delegating this responsibility to third parties could result in willful manipulation of their results. ‘’Recall that last year some candidates who abused this privilege by attempting to manipulate their scores were caught and are currently saving various jail terms. Candidates are advised to note that any attempt to forge the slip would attract stiff sanctions. ‘’The decentralization of printing of result notification slips was done mainly to comply with the directives of the NCDC and other relevant agencies on social distancing. It is against this background that the Board is urging candidates to note that it is incumbent on them to adhere to other precautionary health measures such as wearing of facemasks, washing of hands, among others, in order to mitigate the spread of the virus’’, JAMB added.