Globally, there is a clear shift in how people spend time together. As a matter of fact, technology is one of the vehicles people are using to spend quality time with loved ones, engage with businesses and perform their jobs. Loved ones who hadn’t seen each other in years are now seeing each other daily, people are getting creative with virtual happy hours and keeping up with their friends and family during house parties pre-planned online. Everyone is in tune with the term “we are in this together”. Working from home, research has found, can boost employee productivity, improve work/life balance and foster better mental health (not to mention reduce pollution from commuters). Achieving a work-life balance has become a major discourse in the last few years and of course with today’s technological advancement – it’s a welcome development. Children love playing games and competing with their parents, from who can run the fastest to who’s the Monopoly champion. Activity trackers and game apps give endless opportunities to add another competitive dimension to these traditional games. All these extra abilities to connect through tech are all huge positives in the parenting space. Learning and having fun with your children has never been easier. Last year’s Parenting for a Digital Future report, based on a survey of 2,000 parents by the London School of Economics and Political Science found that watching films, playing video games and keeping in touch via calls and messaging apps brings families together rather than dividing them. READ ALSO: Lagos seals 56 illegal structures in Ikoyi, Banana Island Understanding this development, LG, leading electronic brands in the world, has, In the last two decades, showing a strong character in the adoption of Artificial Intelligence, 8K technology, gaming innovation, Nano Cell, OLED, projector, and the introduction of some of the best TVs with high-quality resolution. Speaking on this development, Head Corporate Marketing Division at LG Electronics West Africa, Mr Hari Elluru said the company is committed to sustainable products through the adoption of Artificial Intelligence. “Spending some time with family or working from home can be fun with LG’s smart home appliances powered by AI”, he said. According to him, “one of our devices that can definitely make family time or work from home fun is the LG AI TVs. They are the first with the Google Assistant and Alexa technology. LG Styler is especially useful for its ability to eliminate germs from clothes and even toys, which are often the breeding ground for germs. In addition to keeping you looking your very best, Styler’sTrueSteam technology eliminates over 99.9 per cent of germs and bacteria found on clothing”, he said. He pointed out that, during this hot weather, LG Whissen ThinQ air conditioner blows 6.8℃ wind on average to provide instant cooling when it is turned on. Even the electric fans adjust the wind directions. It does not make sense an air conditioner is unable to adjust the wind directions. The only air conditioner in the country that provides custom cooling of direct-indirect winds with up down left right wind control. “With the well-being of our employees and customers foremost in mind, we are working around the clock with our partners to minimize any disruptions across the supply chain. We encourage all of our customers to purchase products online. You can get information on delivery methods from retailer sites when you visit for product purchases.” He noted Reacting to question on the range of their products, he disclosed that; “LG has a wide range of air solutions that fit every modern home, from advanced air purifiers that clean the air and eliminate allergens to energy-saving washing machines that thoroughly clean your clothes without damaging even the most delicate fabrics.” He added that, LG TVs with AI ThinQ have the Google Assistant built-in, bringing higher intelligence to your living room. You can find the best entertainment, or ask the Assistant to change the light settings, adjust the room temperature, and more. The included remote control has an onboard microphone, so if you don’t have a compatible device, you can use the Google Assistant integrated into the AI ThinQ OS. However you choose to do so, you can tell the TV to play your favourite shows on Netflix, look up funny pet videos on YouTube, and more.” Explaining fltheir products further, he stated that, LG’s Award-winning and revolutionary TwinWash washing machine comes with some interesting features including the ability to simultaneously wash two separate loads of laundry and of course the much talked about LG ThinQ technology. It is a dream come true for those that may experience some anxiety around washing clothes and choosing the right settings. TWINWash will not only give you recommendations for which wash cycles to choose based on the clothes you’re cleaning, but also send you alerts when you’re running low on laundry detergent using their AI smarts. He stressed that, “our XBOOM AI ThinQ smart speaker responds to voice commands, and you can use the 8-inch touchscreen to watch videos, make video calls, check the steps of a recipe, and control your smart home. It also has a camera for making video calls, along with a physical shutter. It’s High-Resolution Audio at 24bit/96kHz is capable of reproducing High-Quality sound from the original recordings, including formats like ALAC, WAV, and FLAC.”