Tiffany Trump, the daughter of US president, Donald Trump, is confirmed to be dating a Lagos-bred millionaire, Micheal Boulos. Micheal is the son of a multi-billion dollar family in Nigeria, and the two lovebirds have been an item for the past two years. Michael Boulos and Tiffany Trumps bond appear to be growing strong and they may walk down the aisle anytime soon. The couple has over time, developed the act of posting shots on Instagram together. In December 2019, Tiffany, 26, and Boulos, 22, also attended the Kuwait-America Foundation’s gala dinner at the Kuwait Embassy in D.C and her boyfriend posted a photo of the black-tie gala on Instagram. Together, they both attended the President’s State of the Union address. Even when Tiffany’s elder sister, Ivanka Trump shared a behind-the-scenes photo of Trump’s children with their partners on the day of the address, Tiffany and her Nigerian boyfriend, Michael Boulos were captured. How Tiffany And Michael Met. The duo met while they vacationed in Greece in July 2018. From the look of things, it wasn’t just a fling as they appear to be waxing stronger. Whether President Trump approves of his daughter’s relation to the Nigerian still remains a very big question. Recall that Trump has used demeaning adjectives to describe Nigeria. He once referred to Nigeria as a sh##hole country. However, President Trump met with President Buhari after making controversial remarks about Nigeria. According to PageSix, a source revealed that the two spent Thanksgiving together where he also met her family. “Tiffany is happy. She has so far been able to keep things with Michael under the radar. But she introduced him to her family at Thanksgiving, and he comes across as a very intelligent young man from a great family. There was no mention of the president’s unfortunate comment about African nations,” the source said. READ ALSO Ekiti Assembly mourns ex-lawmaker, Ayodele Michael Boulos is the heir to Boulos Enterprises and SCOA Nigeria, a multibillion-dollar trading conglomerate. Boulos Enterprises’ history began in Lagos as a store that sold jewelry and other small products to the upper-middle class in Lagos by George Boulos. In the mid-1950s, George’s sons, Anthony and Gabriel expanded the family business with the importation of Miele, Durkopp, and Göricke motorcycles and in 1959, the firm began importing Suzuki motorcycles. In 1985, the Boulos family diversified their interest in Nigeria with the establishment of Bel Impex Limited, a tissue paper producer. Between 2010 and 2016, the company represented Piaggio India and partially assembled tricycles in the country.