 .Giadom calls Obaseki, other aspirants for fresh screening .NWC disowns Giadom, constitutes Edo primary election, appeal c’ttees .Affirms Ajimobi Ag. National Chairman .Ajimobi sues for peace, says NEC meeting will soon be convened Confusion pervaded the atmosphere at the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Wednesday, as actors propped up to take over the reins of the party following Tuesday’s suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman by a Federal Court of Appeal. The acting Deputy National Secretary, Chief Victor Giadom while addressing the press earlier at the party secretariat declared himself as acting national chairman. He said he relied on a subsisting ruling by Justice S. U. Bature of Abuja High Court on 16th March, 2020 giving him an interim order to act as national chairman of the party. Giadom said the enforcement of the court order becomes imperative following Tuesday’s Appeal Court affirmation of the suspension of the erstwhile national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by a High Court. He said having Oshiomhole removed, the office of the national chairman cannot be left in a vacuum, hence, his resolution to take over the leadership of the National Working Committee (NWC). Giadom declared that all decisions taken in respect of the Edo governorship primary have been suspended, thereby cancelling the decisions and reports of both the screening committee and appeal panel. He, therefore, called on all APC governorship aspirants in Edo State to avail themselves of a fresh screening between Wednesday (yesterday) and Thursday (today). He said both Senator Abiola Ajimobi and Alhaji Lawal Shuaibu remain deputy nation chairmen of the party. While calling for calm, he urged members to abide by existing court orders. About an hour later, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party addressed the press, declaring Giadom a non – existing member of NWC who cannot by any means lay claim to the office of the national chairman and therefore has no basis for calling for a fresh screening exercise. Speaking on behalf of the NWC, the National Vice Chairman (South South), Hillard Eta said he led the 45th Emergency NWC meeting relying on constitutional provision that in the absence of the national chairman, the national vice chairman from the chairman’s political zone presides over the NWC meeting. The NWC, he said, was aware of the Tuesday court order sacking Oshiomhole and quickly resorted to constitutional provision that in the absence of an officer, there is process for replacement. “In view of this, the NWC affirms Chief Abiola Ajimobi, National Deputy Chairman (South) as acting National Chairman”, he said. Eta said the NWC at its neeting on Wednesday morning disowned Giadom who was said to have ceased to be a member of the NWC when he resigned to contest deputy governorship seat in Rivers State. He added that Giadom has not been replaced on the NWC by the South South zone of the party. He said the NWC also at the meeting appointed a seven man election committee and five man appeal panel for the June 22 Edo state governorship primary  election. The election committee is headed by Imo State governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma as chairman and Senator Ajibola Bashiru representing Osun Central as Secretary. The chairman of the five man appeal panel is Prof. Mustapha Bello while the secretary is Mr. Kayode Ajulo. Meanwhile, Senator Ajimobi had earlier in a statement said he has taken over as Acting National Chairman. He called on all APC stakeholders to continue to observe the peace as he assumes the position as acting National Chairman of the APC. Senator Ajimobi spoke on Tuesday night through his Special Adviser, Communication and Strategy, Bolaji Tunji, in the aftermath of the order of the Court of Appeal affirming the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as National Chairman. Senator Ajimobi took over the leadership of the party in line with Section 14 subsection 3 of the APC constitution that states that, “the Deputy National Chairman shall act as the National Chairman in the absence of the National Chairman from his zone”. According to a statement by the spokesman to the Acting National Chairman, a meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) would be called soon to resolve all contentious issues. “We should therefore let peace continue to reign until we call the NEC meeting and take a position on the way forward”, he said. It would be recalled that Senator Ajimobi took over as the Deputy National Chairman in March 2020 when the NWC wrote a letter to the Southwest to nominate a candidate for the vacant position of the Deputy National Chairman (South) when the position became vacant with the appointment of Otunba Niyi Adebayo as Minister