Nigerians, especially its leaders have been challenged to change their approach to dealing with the issue of the Coronavirua pandemic and return to God so that he can heal the land. Giving the charge while unveiling the programs for his church’s 27th anniversary, Apostle Lordslight Oshinbowale, President of Global Dominion Missions (GDM), said for the world to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic that is threatening to destroy the world, the solution lies in the world retracing their steps back to God. According to the man of God, “That the world is experiencing an unprecedented change through the emergency of the killer disease called COVID19, which has killed over two hundred thousand people across the world within the last five months cannot be gainsaid, this chaotic incident has caused a lot of hardship to the global masses, restricting freedom of movement, assembly of people to worship God. “Locking down of economic and social activities, borders of nations are shut down while giant nations are thrown into a blinded confusion, painting a seeming picture of sudden end of an era. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Foundation donates palliatives to orphans, others in Bauchi “It was in the midst of these global horrors that I decided as a man of God to know what exactly is happening to humanity in this dispensation. And on 31st of March, 2020, I saw in a dream that darkness covered the earth and people were in great confusion.” The man of God added that having seen all these in his dream, he decided to pray to God and God revealed to him that the coronavirus was not from him, “God told me this is not from him. Leaders of nations have been deceived and manipulated by the devil, who strategically derailed their minds to commit the greatest sin against God. And the best way to tackle this COVID19 epidemic is for the world to come back to God.” Also speaking about the 27th anniversary which commences on Sunday, 31st May, 2020, Apostle Oshinbowale restated the mission of the church which is to make life easy for individuals.”As you all know that Global Dominion Missions (GDM) is a self-giving-love and a  non-governmental organisation which was founded to promote a culture of change and develop citizens mindset against perpetual mental slavery that beclouds the destiny of the human race.