The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), has presented awards of Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) certification to eleven (11) manufacturing companies in Awka, the Anambra State Capital. The Director-General of SON, Mr Osita A. Aboloma esq. in his welcome address, explained the importance of standardization activities during the pandemic and the role, SON is playing within the Federal Government’s effort to combat the virus. He stated that the COVID -19 pandemic represents halted global economy and world trade, as production and consumption are scaled back across the globe. READ ALSO: COVID1-19: Total direct remittances decline by 50.47% to $1.02bn Represented by the SON Anambra State Coordinator, Engr. Olalekan S. Omoniyi, the Director-General said, however, in order to prevent the stoppage of production of goods and supply of essential supplies which are crucial for the safety of Nigerian lives, the Federal Government has directed that factories remained open and regulatory Agencies such as SON, be fully deployed to ensure that the regulatory framework and practices that are needed to support and enhance the quality, safety and compliance of goods, services and processes are operating during this period. He stressed that it is in line with this directive that the MANCAP award ceremony is carried out. He noted that today more than ever, the uses of Standards are very essential to ensure that products and services meet minimum requirements. He stressed that standards are useful in mitigating the negative effects of the COVID- 19 global pandemics in multiple ways and that in the light of this, SON is one of the essential services providers has been going around to monitor the activities of production outfits. While commending the recipients for going through due process, and describing them as Quality Ambassadors whose products have earned the MANCAP certification of conformity through hard work and consistency of production to defined requirements. Mr Aboloma called on all manufacturers to get the MANCAP certification, which guarantees a boost in global markets access, consumer confidence, employment generation, wealth creation and quality production, amongst other benefits. He enjoined them to conspicuously display the MANCAP certification mark on the products as evidence that their product has been certified as fit for purpose. He, however, cautioned the awardees, that SON will not hesitate to recall the certificates, with an attendant penalty, if any of the conditions attached to the certification is violated. The award recipients commended the Director-General and Management of SON for assisting them to attain this level and promised to work towards maintaining the MANCAP certified status. The event which was spaced for 2 two days to keep in tandem with the Covid-19 protocols of physical distancing in order to avoid crowd had recipients from different sectors which includes manufacturers of Mattresses, Soap, Table Water and Aluminum Corrugated Roofing Sheets amongst other consumables. Companies awarded the MANCAP certifications are: Crescent Group of Companies Ltd; SNF Foods; Ashango C. Okoro and Company Nig. Ltd; Suness Craft Ventures Nig. Ltd; Eetank Resources Ltd; Chumpee Global Resources; Capitol Super Aluminium Products Ltd; Comag Industries Ltd; Obinco E. I. Aluminium Products Nig. Ltd; EMIC Foam and Allied Industries; Beta Cosmetics Manufacturing Co. Ltd.