The Federal Government has said that 50-60% of the deaths in Kano may have been triggered by or due to COVID-19, and that most fatalities were over 65 years of age. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, made this known on Monday  during the briefing  by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 which held in Abuja. He said that following  investigation conducted the Federal Government  verbal autopsy revealed that about 56% of deaths had occurred at home while 38% were in a hospital. He also said that there were circumstantial evidence that between 50-60% of the Kano’s deaths were have been triggered by or due to COVID-19, in the face of preexisting ailments. Most fatalities were over 65 years of age. Ehanire said: ‘Saturday 6th June 2020 marked 100 days since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in Nigeria. In that period, we have seen a lot and learned a lot about this novel virus, about which so little was known at inception. I used that occasion to give a live update on our Nation’s response on the Federal Ministry of Health social media platforms. ‘In these 100 days, we have tested over 76,800 persons, recorded 12,486 confirmed COVID-19 cases in 35 States and FCT, successfully treated and discharged 3,959 persons, but sadly lost 354 Nigerians, most of whom had underlying illnesses. May their souls rest in peace. ‘Our response during this period has been focused and targeted; at the initial phase, on screening travellers at Points of Entry, testing for virus importation, tracing their contacts and isolating positive cases. ‘Since our entry into the community transmission phase, we have begun more aggressive tracking and testing and increased our laboratory network capacity from 5 to presently 30 molecular laboratories,  with a plan for at least one laboratory in every state. This way, turnaround time is reduced to a minimum and case finding and management will run smoothly. ‘Management of infected cases is being reviewed and improved, with revised Clinical Guidelines to be published in accordance with the learnings and evolving dynamics associated with COVID-19 and global best practices. ‘This includes new discharge protocols, treatment regimen for asymptomatic or symptomatic cases with various clinical conditions. We continue to collaborate with States and the FCT with regard to their management of cases with provision of commodities,  training and other technical support where needed. ’The 2-day Webinar held on the 3rd and 4th of June on the effect of COVID-19 on health and care management of the elderly was conducted in collaboration with the West African Health Organization (WAHO), and took a critical look at various aspects of the impact of the disease on the elderly, who are usually at higher risk of infection. ‘The outcome of the webinar provides grounds for policy direction for care of the elderly during and beyond COVID-19. The general recommendation is that senior citizens are vulnerable and should stay at home most times and wear a mask once outside their home. ’This morning, the Federal Ministry of Health received the report of the Ministerial Task Team that went to Kano, to support the COVID-19 response with commodities, training, technical and confidence-building measures. ‘The visit was extended to fact-finding excursions to offer support to five other states. With the observations and recommendations from the three-week assignment, the committee developed a Strategic Incident Action Plan to strengthen the coordination capacity of the health workers and improve community engagement in line with our response plan. ‘While over 150 health workers had been infected at the time of their arrival, there was no report of infection among health workers who had received training on infection prevention and control, thus restoring confidence. The intervention of the ministerial task force has been a game-changer for Kano and some northern States. ‘With regard to unexplained deaths in Kano which occurred in April, the team confirmed from graveyard records, that a total of 979 deaths were recorded in 8 municipal LGA in the state at a rate of 43 deaths per day, with a peak in the second week of April. ‘By the beginning of May, the death rate had reduced to the 11 deaths per day it used to be.  The verbal autopsy revealed that about 56% of deaths had occurred at home while 38% were in a hospital. With circumstantial evidence as all to go by, investigation suggests that between 50-60% of the deaths may have been triggered by or due to COVID-19, in the face of preexisting ailments. Most fatalities were over 65 years of age. ‘I thank Dr Gwarzo, Prof Nasidi, members of the team, especially the contingent from Irrua, for diligently carrying out this assignment and achieving their targets. ‘It is gratifying to note that they all returned safely and had no incident of contracting the infection. I also commend His Excellency, the Governor of Kano State for his support to the team throughout. ‘Finally, I wish to again remind everyone that wearing your face mask at all times in the public, or even inside your house, when not sure of your company, is a valuable safety precaution for you, your family and friends.  Recall that the Kano Government then in April acknowledged the rising death rates but declared that none was caused by the dreaded Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Malam Muhammad Garba, the Commissioner of Information made the clarifications saying the state government acknowledges recent deaths in Kano, but it is on top of the situation. We have begun investigation to unravel the remote causes of the deaths. “The investigation into the cause of the deaths is still ongoing, but preliminary report of the state’s Ministry of Health indicates that the deaths are not connected to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Reports from the ministry have shown that most of the deaths were caused by complications arising from hypertension, diabetes, meningitis and acute malaria. “Gov. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje is anxiously waiting for the final report so as to take necessary action. “The state government is concerned over what is happening. The ministry of health is already handling the situation. When they are through with the medical investigation, further actions will be taken. “The mystery, or whatever it is, will soon be unraveled,” he said.  