…Sets guidelines for reopening of churches, mosques …Reduces nationwide curfew hours ...Shifts COVID-19 battle to states, communities …Domestic flights to resume June 21 The Federal Government has lifted the two months ban on religious gatherings imposed to check the spread of Coronavirus pandemic otherwise referred to as ‘COVID-19’ in the country. According to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and chairman of the PTF on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, President Muhammadu Buhari directed relaxation of the ban after going through the recommendations of the PTF. Speaking at the resumed daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 on Monday, Mustapha however said that relaxation of restriction on places of worship would be based on guidelines issued by the PTF and protocols agreed by state governments. He said: “The PTF submitted its recommendations and the president has approved the following for implementation over the next four weeks spanning 2nd – 29th June, 2020, subject to review: “Cautious advance into the Second Phase of the national response to COVID-19; application of science and data to guide the targeting of areas of ongoing high transmission of COVID-19 in the country; “Mobilisation of all resources at State and Local Government levels to create public awareness on COVID 19 and improve compliance with non-pharmaceutical interventions within communities; sustenance of key non-pharmaceutical interventions that would apply nationwide and include ban of gatherings of more than 20 people outside of a workplace; “Relaxation of restriction on places of Worship based on guidelines issued by the PTF and protocols agreed by state governments”. The SGF further disclosed that the initial six weeks eased lockdown would end by midnight of Monday. Announcing the new guidelines, the PTF chairman said that in the next four weeks, the curfew would be reduced nationwide from 10pm to 4am. He added that the new phase of the lockdown also places a ban on interstate movement, gatherings with more than 20 people among others. While stressing that the pandemic is still very potent as Nigeria has not reached the peak of infection, he added that the battle against COVID-19 is a long term one. He stressed the need to pursue a strategy that will aid the sustainable control of the spread of the disease. According to him, risk communications and community engagement should remain top priority as well as precision approach to containment and management of the virus. He lamented that 20 out of the 774 LGAs nationwide account for 60% of the cases. “Majority of the confirmed cases are in a handful of local governments in the country. “20 out of the 774 LGAs nationwide account for 60 percent of the cases.There is an opportunity to concentrate efforts in these high-burden areas. “Federal agencies and State Governments are working together on the promotion and utilisation of guidelines on case management (e.g. homecare for relatively well patients). “There is increased capacity to detect, test and trace those infected with the virus. 29 testing laboratories have been activated, with Bauchi being the latest addition while the test count nationwide has exceeded 60,000; and a shift in focus to community engagement and enhanced risk communication”, Mustapha explained. He advised residents to observe the established health protocols for the prevention of COVID-19 such as temperature checks, hand sanitizing protocols as well as the use of face masks in all the areas mentioned above. Also on Monday, the Federal Government announced that domestic flights will resume in the country on June 21. This is just as the govt said that it has directed the aviation sector to commence development of protocols that will lead to the resumption of domestic flight. The nation’s domestic airspace was shut in March in a bid to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus disease otherwise referred to as ‘COVID-19’. The national coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Sani Aliyu, who was speaking during the PTF briefing on COVID-19 on Monday, said, “the aviation industry is requested to start developing protocols to allow for domestic flights to resume anytime from the 21st of June onwards. “Airlines must ensure physical distancing by reducing passenger capacity and ensure the provision of sanitisers and personal protective equipment as well as carrying out temperature checks at the point of entry and departure and ensuring that airports are not congested by either travelers or airports staff”. During the briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, on Monday, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, said the resumption of flights will be purely premised on the implementation of the approved protocols for safe operations of the airlines. According to a statement by the ministry’s spokesperson, James Odaudu, the next three weeks is to enable the operators “to adhere to all the necessary industry regulations, without which they cannot take to the skies after being dormant for some time.” He said this is because aviation, unlike other sectors, is a highly regulated one. On modalities for the operation of flights when they resume, Sirika said consultations have been on and will continue between the ministry and industry ‘stakeholders’ on the best ways to operate profitably while at the same time ensure the safety of travellers. He, however, cautioned owners of private aircraft “who have been in the habit of asking for permits to fly within the country despite the restrictions in place, to desist”. He said the restrictions are still in place, “except for those on essential services which have been clearly defined”. He also said approval for flights on essential services are not paid for, “while it takes little or no time to grant such approvals.” The minister also expressed gratitude for the cooperation of in the aviation sector in spite of their unquantifiable losses occasioned by the lockdown. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Nigeria’s aviation sector has reportedly been losing about N21 billion monthly. It would be recalled that the country’s airports and airspace were shut in March by the President Muhammadu Buhari, as part of efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.