*Names Giadom’s replacement on NWC The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress on Saturday announced the take – off of a process to lift the suspension placed on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by the APC executive in Etsako West Ward 10 in Edo State. The Vice Chairman (South-South) Hilliard Eta disclosed to journalists Saturday at the national secretariat of APC where he presentwd 17 out of the 27 member Etsako West Ward 10 APC executive who tesolved to lift the ban on Oshiomhole. Eta who hold brief for Senator Abiola Ajimobi, the factional acting National chairman, said the party has received the communications from the Ward 10 Executives of the APC in Edo state staying her resolution revoking the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole, adfing that the resolution has further being affirmed by party executives at the Etsako West local government and factional executive of Edo state SPC. Hilliard said: “We have received the resolution of Etsako West Ward 10 as has been read out by the Secretary of that Ward. “Let me say that 17 out of 27 members have signed this resolution. Let me also day that in matters of this nature, our constitution provides for only a simple majority and 17 out of 27 is indeed more than a simple majority. “So, we want to use this opportunity to thank Etsako West Ward 10 for what they have done. History will be on your side.” He continued that : “I am also in receipt of the acceptance and ratification of that resolution by the Etsako West LGA executive dated the 9th of June 2020 and signed by the Chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Akokia and the Secretary, Hon. Dauda Ahmed. “II am also in receipt of further ratification by the state executive committee of the APC in Edo state signed by Col. David Imuse (retd), the acting state Chairman and Lawrence O. Oka, state Secretary.” Hilliard also said a high Court in Port Harcourt had declared Chief Victor Giadom, another factional Chairman of the party with whom they contend for the soul of the APC as a non-member of the National working committee of the All Progressives Congress and he should never parade himself as National Chairman of the party or lay claim to its membership. The factional Chairman who addressed the media said that “You are aware that on Friday, a competent court of jurisdiction declared Chief Victor Giadom as not being a member of the National Working Committee NWC and should never parade himself as such. “Even before then, there was a resolution by the NWC asking the South South zone of the party which I head to transmit a name for his replacement or filling of the vacancy made possible by his resignation to contest as Deputy Governorship Candidate of our party in Rivers state. “I want to announce to the world that I am in receipt of the name of a distinguished member of this party from Rivers state to the Zone for ratification in the person of Nwogu Boms Esq, a former Attorney General of Rivers state. His name has been transmitted to my good office and I want to announce that in the earliest time possible, the south South zonal executive committee will meet and ratify that name and send same to the NWC of our great party.