A governorship aspirant in Edo state, Rep Ogbeide-Ihama has assured his supporters that he is capable of picking the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP). He promised to tackle unemployment as well as investing in the agricultural potentials of the state with a view to revamping the state’s economy if given the mandate. He stated this at the PDP national secretariat, Abuja, after submitting his expression of interest and nomination forms. Expressing confidence in his ability to win the election for the PDP, Rep. Ogbeide – Ihama said that in 2015 as an opposition politician, he won election against all odds, saying that “I won in 2015 with Adams Oshiomhole as the governor of the state and I was in opposition. “My opponent was the sitting speaker from APC. The second time, the same thing happened. The Governor (Godwin Obaseki) was from my own constituency and from APC, and I won again- both elections with double digits lead and no court cases. “So convincingly, the people of Edo state and especially my constituency which is the heart of Edo state, have shown clearly that they have confidence in me and I have also been able to show them that I can stand up and represent them. “However, whoever gets it, I will stand with the person. But, let God’s will be done.” The aspirant said Edo people are ready for a change in governance after having tested the APC administrations of Adams Oshiomhole and the incumbent, Godwin Obaseki. He said the people are yearning for a purposeful-driven government that would give them a sense of belonging which his administration under the PDP will provide. “If you see what is happening in Edo today, you will imagine that the people are yearning for that change, that transformation, that restoration to the days of great men like Samuel Ogbemudia and Ambrose Alli. “It is a time to deliver to the people their rights and dividends, The whole idea is a call to service. I am on a mission to do things differently in Edo. “For me, I think that we have passed a situation where people should be dying of very basic and avoidable ailments. Our hospitals must be brought up to standard to meet with international standard. “Our security system must be well equipped and properly managed. We must have a database of those that are governed in the state. “Employment is very key while education is another angle that drives development. All of these we shall do differently. “There are schools there right now, but how many of them are well equipped? How many of the teachers are well trained?” he added.