A member of the House of Representatives from Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency, Oyo State, Hon. Shina Peller, has approved the appointment of four constituents as his Special Assistants on Political Matters and Grassroots Media across all the four local governments of his constituency. Each of the newly appointed Special Assistants namely Audu Raheem Bolatito, Alhaja Taofeek Ajarat Bukola, Ismail Shuaib Jibola and Azeez Kazeem Olaniyi Arigbabuwo, hails from each of the four local governments (Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Kajola and Iwajowa) that make up the constituency respectively. The appointment of the four Special Assistants, is with effect from yesterday June 1, 2020, was contained in an official statement released and signed by the Press Secretary to Hon. Shina Peller, Kola Popoola. Earlier, Hon. Shina Peller had met with the new appointees in Ibadan, where he briefed them on the development, scope of their duties and other necessary assignments they are expected to carry out as his aides. As contained in the appointment letters given to the appointees, they are to serve as grassroots aides and a link between the office of Hon. Shina Peller and the constituency in their respective local governments on political matters and other relevant issues. Ismail Shuaib Lawoya is a grassroot politician, former student union leader who hails from Lawoya compound Gbonje Okeho in Kajola Local Government of Oyo State. He is to serve as a Special Assistant to Hon. Peller on Political Matters and Grassroots Media in Kajola Local Government. Also, Malam Audu Raheem Bolatito, who was born and raised in Iseyin, is a notable personality, he is a Masters Degree holder. He represents Iseyin Local Government as a Special Assistant to the Iseyin-born federal legislator. Azeez Kazeem from Iganna in Iwajowa Local Government Area is a renowned grassroots politician and he is expected to function as a Special Assistant to Hon. Peller on Political Matters in Iwajowa Local Government. In the same vein, Alhaja Taofeek Hajarat Bukola is a grassroots politician who hails from Itesiwaju Local Government. She was a Local Government Caretaker Committee member supervising Health Department in Itesiwaju Local Government from 2011 to 2015. She represents Itesiwaju Local Government as Hon. Peller’s Special Assistant.