Lagos – A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Joe Igbokwe, has called on Federal Government to compensate the family of late Chief MKO Abiola in view of the losses and pains they suffered following the annulment of June 12,1993 election. He made the call on Friday in Ikeja while speaking with newsmen at the Democracy Day Celebration of Ndigbo in Lagos APC. Igbokwe, who commended President Muhammadu Buhari for honouring Abiola, winner of the election, said a lot more should be done to compensate for the losses his family suffered. Igbokwe, also Special Adviser to Gov.  Babajide Sanwo-oOlu on Drainage Services, said the family had lost almost everything as a result of their patriarch’s death during the June 12 struggle. “That we are having this June 12 celebration today is an indication that Chief MKO Abiola and all the other people that died as a result of the June 12 did not die in vain. “And Ndigbo in Lagos APC is having this celebration to alert Nigerians that seven presidents were at the seat for 27 years and none did anything to recognise June 12, until Buhari, a good man from Daura came. “Even a former president, who comes from Ogun State with Abiola and benefitted from June 12, did not do anything to honour MKO until the good man from Daura came. I hear oral sex is good, says Purfcie Conna “We want to appreciate the president for recognizing June 12 and Abiola, but we are adding another caveat. “Though no amount of money would compensate for the pains and losses suffered by the Abiola family over June 12. “I appeal to the Federal Government to still compensate the family with a good amount for those irreplaceable losses and also do its best to unite the family,” he said. Igbokwe pointed out that all the wealth and investments of the late Abiola, including Summit Oil, Concord Airline, Abiola Farms, Abiola Estate had vanished with the June 12 struggle and his eventual death. The APC chieftain said the government would be appreciating the family for the sacrifices of their patriarch for democracy by compensating them. “The Federal Government can further honour Abiola by recognising him as a former president by placing his photograph among those of other former presidents in Aso Villa,” he added. He commended Lagos State Government for its consistent support for MKO’s family, saying other state governments could emulate the gesture by supporting the family. While wishing all Nigerians a happy Democracy Day celebration, he urged citizens to keep hope alive in the face of national challenges and guard the country’s democracy jealously. Speaking, Chief Uche Dimgba, Coordinator, Ndigbo in Lagos APC, said the group was committed to sustaining the foothold of the party in the state and the country. He commended Igbokwe for being the rallying point of all Ndigbo in Lagos APC, saying the governor’s aide had done a lot for the party’s growth. (NAN)