…as IATA offers free support to FAAN The Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Musa Nuhu in his effort  to be accountable to stakeholders in the industry concerning the restart of the aviation sector, conveyed during the weekend another round of stakeholders’ forum. Capt. Musa Nuhu, the DG of NCAA in his address appealed to stakeholders especially the airlines that according to plan, the restart plan will be submitted to the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 by Wednesday (24th June, 2020), all things being equal. “We are yet to get there but we are pretty close. The plan is that by Wednesday, we will submit our report to PTF. I reiterate we are pretty close.” The Chairman of the NCAA Covid-19 Committee, Engr. Godwin Balang enumerated the guidelines control measures employed by NCAA to work towards the restart of the industry. ‘We have to develop the guidelines on the uncharted ground which is to: issue regulations in compliance with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs); Issue guidelines to aviation industry and approve the restart of the aviation industry (in totality or at individual level). According Engr. Balang “restart and recovery guidelines are based on 10 key principles which are to: protect people in harmonized but flexible measures; work as one aviation team and show solidarity; ensure essential connectivity; actively manage safety, security and health-related risks; make aviation public health measures work with aviation safety and security systems; strengthen public confidence; distinguish restart from recovery; support financial relief strategies to help the aviation industry; ensure sustainability and learn lessons to improve resilience.”Engr. Balang also gave the level readiness by components of the industry such as airlines, air navigation provider, ground handlers and meteorologists and others.According to him, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) is 80 per cent ready; Airlines (domestic) are 70% ready; NIMET is also ready and domestic airports at 57 per cent. The NCAA helmsman said the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is carrying the bulk of the pressure and a lot of drastic efforts are being made, “I can tell you that because I know how hard they working. We have done well, we just have few efforts to make. Airports are the most critical parts of the value chain. “On the part of the NCAA, no CAA is set-up to deal with a system that needs to shut down and restart. We need to get it done well. We are doing a mini-audit of the whole ecosystem at the same time. We do not need to have all the airlines, airports or the ground handlers ready before we restart the system. We are almost there.” The immediate past National President of the National Association Nigerian of Travel Agents (NANTA), Mr Bernard Bankole pointed reacting, pointed out that: “We need to have on the spot check-in form of a dry-run. All the kiosks at the terminals need to be rid of. We need to reduce the numbers of personnel at the terminals and we need to know what the ‘New Normal’ will look like”. In his response, the DG said: “Simulation at the airport will be decided in a couple of days.” On concession of the airports, “It is ongoing and it will be done.” The current NANTA President, Mrs. Susan Akporiaye in her submission said NCAA should consider real-time or animated video of the simulation of the new normal will look like. The chairman of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), Captain Nogie Meggison and Captain Ufom demanded a restart date for planning sake. NCAA DG said: “Your lack of operations put NCAA in a difficult situation. Our revenue is down by 90 to 95 per cent. We are almost ready. Like I said earlier, not all the airlines and airports have to be necessarily ready before the restart. If anything goes wrong, NCAA will be held responsible. Sometimes this week, the proposed restart date will be made known.” The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Managing Director, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu pleaded with the stakeholders and said the preparedness of the airports bother mostly on safety and security. “Pease bear with us. It is primarily on safety and security issues. We need to improve on what we have. That is why we started training our personnel. On procurement, there are things you do not get on time. We will get a drastic pace from (21st June 2020)tomorrow. With the public enlightenment, we are working with the NCAA.”