…Says virus not a death sentence .No state is free of COVID-19 – NCDC …’Road, Airport to reopen after meeting guidelines’ The Presidential Tasks Force (PTF) on the novel coronavirus disease otherwise referred to as COVID-19 has called on Nigerians not to be scared of undergoing COVID-19 tests. The PTF Chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who revealed that COVID-19 is not a death sentence, said it is important for Nigerians to carry out the tests to ascertain their COVID-19 status. Speaking at the resumed daily briefing of the PTF in Abuja on Monday, Mustapha said that the PTF has identified lack of information about case definition protocols, location of testing centres, inability to reach call centres as obstacles to getting needed help. He therefore directed that more awareness be created on the location of test centres and how to get tested especially when you fit the case definition. The call centres are also being re-energised for responsiveness. “I, therefore, urge Nigerians to make use of these facilities and get tested. Similarly, I implore us not to be afraid of undertaking the COVID-19 test. “Testing positive for COVID-19 is not a death sentence, but failure to test, especially when symptoms are evident could result in death as it may be too late once the symptoms become full-blown. ‘’Similarly, I implore us not to be afraid of undertaking the COVID-19 test. Testing positive for COVID-19 is not a death sentence, but failure to test; especially when symptoms are evident could result in death, as it may be too late once the symptoms become full blown. The loss of any Nigerian is not only painful but most avoidable provided we seek help early. ‘’The PTF is also not unmindful of the possibility of imports especially through our land borders. For this reason, our men and women of the Nigerian Immigration Service remain vigilant and this has resulted in the apprehension of two foreigners who tried to enter the country illegally over the weekend. This commendable effort is appreciated’’, he said. Speaking on the collaborative effort with states, the SGF said: ‘’As part of our collaboration with the States, the PTF team made up of the DG NCDC and the WHO Representative visited Plateau, Edo, Lagos and Akwa Ibom states to assess the state of preparedness and control. The visit further gives us confidence that sub-national levels of governments are also taking the necessary actions to ensure that this fight is speedily won. ‘’On Saturday 20th June, 2020, we received the first batch of equipment supplies under the One UN Basket fund and the European Union. These supplies included Personal Protection Equipment, testing kits and laboratory equipment. I want to use this opportunity to thank the partners of the One UN Basket and look forward to receiving the second batch of these supplies. ‘’Their commitment greatly shows that partnership is the most important ingredient needed to overcome this pandemic globally. ‘’I similarly wish to thank the WHO for the donation of Oxygen concentrators, which has become very vital for case management’’ Earlier, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said no state in the country is free from the coronavirus disease. According to the NCDC Director-General, Chikwe Ihekweazu, Nigeria like other countries across the globe was living in a context. “No state, no single state in Nigeria is COVID-19 free, not one,” Ihekweazu said, adding “No country in the world is COVID-19 free. Even New Zealand that is an island state is still having new cases after a period of not having any.” “We can’t separate ourselves from the rest of the country. We live in a context, viruses spread, and it’s the nature of them, so right now no state is COVID-19 free. That’s why we have to keep doing this work that we are doing, testing people, finding out if they have it’’, he added. Meanwhile, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 says the interstate road lockdown and the airport closure will reopen after meeting the necessary guidelines. Dr. Sani Aliyu, Coordinator, PTF, said this at the PTF daily news conference on Monday in Abuja. He said that there was still restriction on inter state movement, adding that there was no way the flight would be opened while the roads were closed. “We cannot operate the flight and keep the road closed,” he said. He disclosed that the Minister of Aviation, Sen Hadi Siriki had given the PTF strict guidelines that would be adopted in reopening the airways. He added that the Minister of State for Transportation, Sen Gbemisola Saraki was also currently engaging the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) toward reopening of inter state roads. Aliyu said that the engagement bothered on the guidelines to be adopted in reopening the road across the country, saying, as soon as the PTF was sure of people’s safety, the road would be reopened. He blamed the surge in the number of cases over COVID-19 on lack of effective compliance in the last three months, adding that the PTF would continue to sensitise the public. He beamoned lack in behavioural change among the citizenry, stressing that the PTF would continue to push for more testing and also engaged traditional rulers. Aliyu said the PTF would continue to beam its searchlight on the 20 Local Governments Areas mostly affected by COVID-19, adding that the PTF would redouble its testing capacity and isolation centres. According to him, every option is on the table, we will continue to increase case management and also put effort at increasing oxygen’s availability at our hospitals. He said that for the country to get out of COVID-19, there was a need to abide by the rules despite the inconveniences and also adopt behavioural change.