Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad on Friday sworn -in Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem the substantive president of the court of appeal, charging her to maintain the credibility of the appellate court and to work hard to reduce the volume of cases pending before the court. The chief justice, who performed the inauguration at the Supreme Court, challenged the new appeal court president to live up to expectations by maintaining cordial relations with her colleagues on the bench of court. At the inauguration attended by governors of Sokoto, Plateau, Niger and Kebbi states, Justice Muhammad reminded the new appeal court president that the court has the largest number of justices in the country, hence the need for it to be up and doing. Specifically, he counselled Justice Dongban-Mensem, who is the second female president of the court to be appointed, to ensure regular meetings with presiding justices in all divisions of the court as well as other justices to enable them understand challenges facing the court. Justice Muhammed further tasked the new appellate court president to continue with her good character, behaviour and spirit of hardwork, adding that sky will not only be her limit, but a stepping stone. “From my personal experience, work load in the court of appeal, especially in the divisions is the highest. It is a home of work, it is a home of cooperation, but with your experience, hard work and zeal, you will not find your new status difficult. “If you sustain your good character and conduct, your tenure will definitely be an excellent one. Try to be yourself and do not allow others derail you. Remain what we know you for,” the chief justice added. Responding, Justice Dongban-Mensem said she feels honoured and challenged to be appointed as the president of the court of appeal by the National Judicial Council (NJC) and expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for approving her appointment. Speaking shortly after her inauguration Justice Dongban-Mensem assured Nigerians that she will do her best in ensuring that justice is applied at the appellate court. She promised to improve on the legacies left behind by her predecessors.