Following the report that the Inspector General of Police has ordered a probe of  Nigeria sensation Dapo Oyebanjo, popularly called D’banj over a rape case  many have signed a petition asking the United Nation to remove him as one of its youth ambassadors. The petition according to reports posted on Change.org asked the United Nations and United Nations Women Africa to support and lend their influence in helping a lady who alleged the she was raped by D’Banj get justice for the abuse she endured in 2018, the harassment and bullying in the past weeks.” As at the time of filling this report the petition by one Popoola has gotten about 14,774 supporters . “We call on the United Nations, and United Nations Women Africa organisations to remove Nigerian artiste Mr Dapo Oyebanjo as a youth ambassador and distance themselves from his actions following the sponsored kidnap of Seyitan who accused D’Banj of rape and sexual assault which happened in 2018. “Women in Nigeria are increasingly at risk of sexual violence and the United Nations and United Nations Women Africa as an entity committed to the empowerment of women should not be seen to associate themselves with alleged rapists, abusers, and kidnappers. “We ask the United Nations and United Nations Women Africa to support and lend their influence in helping Seyitan get justice for the abuse she endured in 2018 and the harassment and bullying in the past weeks.” the petition reads The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu,ordered that  probe D’Banj be investigated for alleged rape levelled against him. According to the reference letter number CB.7000/IGP.SEC/ABJ/VOl.484/801 signed by the Principal Staff Officer to the IG, DCP Idowu Owohunwa and ddressed to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Force Criminal Investigation Department, Area 10, Garki, Abuja. The IG’s letter was in response to a petition written to the IG by Mr. Tommy Ojoge-Daniel, a lawyer to Miss Seyitan Babatayo, who accused D’Banj of raping her in 2018. The letter written by the IG is titled, ‘Re: Petition Against (1) Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo (Aka D’Banj) for Rape Indecent Sexual Assault, Attempted Assault on Miss Seyitan Temidayo The letter read in part, “I forward herewith copy of letter dated June 5, 2020 received from Ojoge, Omileye and Partners on the above underlined subject. I am to respectfully convey the directive of the Inspector-General of Police that you treat. “Accept the assurances of my esteemed regards please.” Seyitan’s friend, Benjamin Ese, in a Twitter thread in early June had told the story of how D’Banj allegedly raped Seyitan at a hotel two years ago – in December 2018. She said it happened at an all-white party where D’Banj allegedly offered her friend some money to spend the night which she rejected until he surprisingly showed up in Seyitan’s hotel room around 2 in the midnight. “D’Banj drove all the way from Eko hotel where he was lodged and came down to glee hotel in Victoria Island at midnight 2.40 am and collected the spare key from the receptionist,” Ese said in the thread which has since sparked an outrage.  She said D’Banj allegedly “got into my friend’s room and forcefully threatened he would walk her out of the room naked, kept his fingers in her vagina and repeatedly raped her.” 