Ebonyi state Governor, David Umahi has ordered the immediate closure of all the courts in the state. The governor gave the directive on Friday in a broadcast to residents. He also ordered all judiciary staff in the state to immediately proceed for COVID-19 testing. He further announced that the state had recorded its first COVID-19 death, which he described as regrettable and saddening. The governor said the courts are to remain closed for the next 10 days and that the directive is to enable health workers fumigate the buildings and court premises. “It is unfortunate that we have recorded one death due to this COVID-19 and it makes me so sad. “I am directing that in line with the COVID-19 law, all the courts in Ebonyi state be shut down for the next 10 days. The judiciary, state high court, industrial court, federal high court and magistrate court should all be shut down. “Also, I advise all the judiciary officers and their families to undergo COVID-19 testing. I have ordered that all the judiciary buildings and premises should be immediately fumigated within the 10 days,” Gov. Umahi said. The governor advised churches and marketers to take safety measures and to take the coronavirus seriously for their own good. He regretted that residents were not taking the pandemic seriously and warned that any church or market found flouting the COVID-19 protocols would be shut down. “We are not contemplating closing markets and churches, but we advise them to please take this matter serious. If you are working, ensure that you sanitise yourself every 10 minutes. “This is very serious. We have a spike because we have a high testing regime. People may have the COVID-19, won’t show any symptoms, but will go about spreading it”. “Some people with the virus will argue that they are not showing any symptoms. Yes, your immune system is fighting it, but the next person that may be weaker than you is at danger and our job is to protect everybody in Ebonyi state,” he said in the broadcast.