Dr Hassan Ikrama, Chief Medical Director (CMD), Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital (DASH), Lafia, says the management of the hospital is making efforts to begin postgraduate training of pharmacists. He made the disclosure in an interview  in Lafia on Friday. Romanian doctor gets suspended jail sentence over Cameroonian player’s death Ikrama said the essence of the training was to boost the manpower befitting of a specialist hospital. “We were given accreditation for residency on Obstetrics and Gynaecology recently by the West African College of Surgeons to train doctors to be consultants. “Currently, we are doing undergraduate training of pharmacists and nurses and we are working seriously to begin postgraduate training for them to assist them to attain the height of their career,” he said. Ikrama lauded Gov. Abdullahi Sule for giving them the approval to employ additional staff. “Following the governor’s approval, we have employed more than 100 nurses, 25 doctors as well as others; in addition to the ones we have to bring the health workers to patients’ ratio,” he said. He also commended the governor for completing and equipping projects started by the former governor and putting the projects to use. Ikrama said the hospital had, within the last one year, increased the number of theatres from two to four; increased clinics from one to eight and had provided more scanning machines from one to eight. “Other initiatives to reposition the hospital include the provision of 200 additional beds, renovation of wards, toilets, among others,” he said. According to him, the hospital has 40 permanent consultants in addition to other visiting consultants in different fields. “There are 125 doctors apart from nurses, pharmacists and laboratory technicians, among others. “We have also acquired a brand new digital X-ray machine and can now undertake services for which we used to refer patients to Keffi or Jos,” he said. Ikrama, therefore, assured members of the public that the management of the hospital would do everything possible to improve on service delivery. (NAN).