 The minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Zainab Ahmed has inaugurated an inter-ministerial task force charged with full implementation of Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) in Abuja READ ALSO: New NBC Code: Some Provisions Unenforceable-Okoroji The minister said the programme was developed by different government agencies to enhance effectiveness of government financial activities. “The programme which is jointly developed by the OAGF, BOF, DMO, CBN and FIRS in consultations with other stakeholders and you may recall that GIFMIS is part of pillar 3 of the National Strategy for Public Service Reform aimed at making the Nigerian Public service world class anchored on optimum service delivery to the citizenry. “The overall objective of the government is to implement a computerized financial management information system for the FGN which is efficient, effective and and increases the ability of the federal government to undertake central control and monitoring of expenditure and receipts in the MDAS as well as Increase the ability to access information on financial and operational performance. “It also aims at increasing internal controls to prevent and detect potential and actual fraud, access to information on the government’s cash position and improves medium term planning through Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF),” she explained. According to her, the inauguration of the committee demonstrates the government’s commitment to ensuring accountability and transparency in the Armed Forces and other paramilitary agencies She charged the task force to look into the concerns raised with regard to full GIFMIS implementation with the sole aim of addressing them fo ensure successfully implementation of the system. According to her the concerns with regards to Military and the Intelligence Agencies covert operational expenses and other non-regular allowances for personnel and officers who are mainly cash-based. The committee which are expected to find solutions to the concerns raised were giving three weeks by the minister to conclude and submit their report. Terms of reference for the Committee according to the Minister include, “Review the application of GIFMIS in the Armed Forces for Budget Preparation and review the application of GIFMIS in the Armed Forces for Bottom-up Cash Planning,” Others include review the application of GIFMIS in the Armed Forces for Procurement and Commitment Management Process among others In his remarks, the Accountant General of the federation, Ahmed Idris said the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) serves as an integral item in Pillar 3 of National Asset in public service. According to him, the system has been in place 8 years ago, although it is not popular among MDAs, which is why his office is driving the process of managing government resources effectively. “The GIFMIS kicked off since 2012 with 93 pilot MDAs and we have over 800 MDAs at all levels who are using it for budget implementation. Today, 105 MDAs deploy all functionalities of GIFMIS effectively. “The ministerial task force will see to the implementation of the programme in the armed forces and other security forces of the paramilitary,” he said.