An expert has called for an immediate review of Nigeria’s Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) to create an enabling business environment for Nigerian airlines. The multiple-entry points and the frequencies of foreign airlines have been more disadvantageous to the Nigeria airlines as opposed to the advantages the agreement was supposed to present. This was the submission made by Nick Fadugba, Chairman of African Business Aviation Association (AfBAA) at the recent webinar organised by AELEX Partners, the third in the series of its aviation webinars. According to him, at the time the Bilateral agreement was made, the Nigerian airlines in play at the time was relatively new and now, to ensure the growth of the airlines, there’s a need to review the agreement to properly incorporate the airlines as the agreements do not favour the average Nigerian carrier. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Experts in health research, development to access N550m CBN’s grant According to Fadugba the multiple entry points have diluted the domestic market for the carriers. Speaking further, he noted that there’s a need to overhaul the current business plans of the airlines with emphasis on unit cost, load factor and yield. He also noted that for the airlines to rise above the current situation there should be cooperation among airlines through joint training, MRO, spares pooling, joint operation, interlining and code-sharing. While showing optimism, a panellist at the webinar, Ms Iyabo Sosina, an international aviation expert and former Secretary General of African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC), stated that the future of air transport in Nigeria is bright despite all the challenges at play now. She advocated the need for rebuilding and repositioning the industry. According to her, there’s a need to focus on the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) without unnecessary political interference with the authority. Speaking further, she advised that airlines in Nigeria should be reduced to not more than four. These airlines must be able to boast of between 10-20 aircraft each. She also noted that more than ever before, there’s a need for airlines to initiate collaborative ways of doing business as mergers can’t be forced. This she said will make the industry stronger to be able to compete on not just the domestic level but also on the regional and international scenes. Dr Arthur, Group Executive Finance, Ghana Airport Company, noted that airports need to start afresh by collaborating with each other and aviation stakeholders. He advised that African countries should come together to share expertise in order to make the aviation industry viable. He also noted that countries should look at investing in non-aeronautical inclusions such as building malls in the airports Sindy Foster, the Principal Managing Partner at Avaero Capital Partners stated that the Nigerian aviation industry has been in crisis way before Covid-19. According to her, the lack of capitalization and the low propensity of Nigerians to fly has been a major issue which, more than ever before, has become pertinent to address. For her, there was a need to look into the factors frustrating the airlines business. One of which is the ticket prices. Multiple taxations should be removed to encourage airlines growth.