The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPoB, Nnamdi Kanu has said that Mujahid Asari Dokubo, the leader of the Niger Delta People’s Volunteer Force is  a full time Fulani Caliphate agent Nnamdi Kanu made this known in a statement he signed on Tuesday, reacting to Asari Dokubo’s statement that he never collected  any money from him. Nnamdi Kanu went on to say that on Wednesday, 3 June, 2020 at 7pm here on Facebook LIVE, he will ‘bury the illegitimate government of Aisha Buhari along with all saboteurs within and without, armed with nothing other than the shield of TRUTH and the sword of facts and figures.’ Recall that Nnamdi Kanu had said ‘ASARI DOKUBO, if you claim that I didn’t give you money and I didn’t send people to discuss with you, make a video and swear with your Koran, SWEAR WITH YOUR RELIGION AND DIE. Nnamdi Kanu’s days are numbered, he will soon be punished, says Asari Dokubo “You are an idiot, you are a thief, over-bloated swamp pig”, Asari Dokubo responding said: “Nnamdi Kanu, your followers have challenged me that if I did not collect N20m from you I should swear by the Qur’an, I swear by the Qur’an that I never collected N20m from you or any of your members. “I never betrayed any of your members, you sent them to me and they left, as we speak I have about 18 IPOB members staying in my house because of the love and trust they have for me. So many IPOB members, BSS Commanders come to me and even beg me not to talk. “I swear, if I collected any money or betrayed any Biafran, may Allah punish me in this world and the one after. “I also now ask Kanu to swear if you have not being collecting monies from all the governors of the Igbo states and beyond running into hundreds of millions. “Swear that you have never betrayed IPOB members to the DSS, I know that whether you swear or not your days are numbered. “You will soon be punished and the whole world would see your disgrace. I stand my the Quran and maintain that if I ever demanded N200m and you gave me N20m, may Allah punish and disgrace me in this world and the one thereafter.” But Kanu today said “NO IGBO MAN DEAD OR ALIVE HAVE DONE WHAT MAZI NNAMDI KANU HAS DONE FOR THE BIAFRANS ~ Asari Dokubo “Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is a man to be respected~ Asari Dokubo “Nnamdi Kanu meant well for all of us. He wants freedom for all Biafrans~Asari Dokubo “Nnamdi Kanu is the man to be respected~Asari Dokubo “All the above quotes as captured in this video below were when I used to give him money but as soon as I discovered he is a full time Fulani Caliphate agent and stopped, his petulance and name-calling started. You can take a man out of the Zoo but you can’t take the Zoo out of a man. “Tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 June, 2020 at 7pm here on Facebook LIVE, we shall bury the illegitimate government of Aisha Buhari along with all saboteurs within and without, armed with nothing other than the shield of TRUTH and the sword of facts and figures.”