The poorest of the poor were on Tuesday singled out from the community of Kwande, in Qua’an Pan local government area of Plateau state, where the sick and other vulnerable citizens received medical care and other incentives as palliative. The gesture was meted out for two days by a Non-governmental organisation known as Tina Bawa Foundation headed by Rev. Mrs. Tina Bawa, General Overseer of Tina Bawa Ministries International and founder Tina Bawa Foundation. READ ALSO Suspect linked to rape, murder of UNIBEN undergraduate arrested Supported by Woman Dare To Dream Foundation, Mrs. Bawa in her opening remarks said, “The foundation moved to provide the medical outreach occasioned by the absence of medical care and food shortage in the rural communities. According to her: “We sent out a team to the community to find out what the needs of the people are, and we discovered that most of them need medical attention than food especially with the prevailing economic hardship occasioned by the COVID-19. “So we quickly mobilise our team of doctors, nurses and community health workers to carry out the outreach. “Conscious of government rules in public activities, we organized members of the community in a group of 50 in a batch and we have more than 10 batches. “My desire to reach out to the poor is a divine call, I got the inspiration from above. God has been the provider of the resources and I’m just a tool in the hands of the Almighty and I’m happy God chose to use me to reach out to the poor”, she said. Reacting to the gesture, one of the beneficiaries, a 72 year old, Mama Esther said, “I have been battling with joint pains and have been applying local herbs because I can’t afford the drugs often prescribed for me, but today I have been offered the drugs free. I will ever remain grateful to the sponsor. Other beneficiaries were given free face mask before going through all the medical stages.Our correspondent reports that beneficiaries went through measurements of weights, body temperature, body mass, pause before seeing the doctors, after which the patient is given the drugs prescribed by the doctors that examined them.