Nigerian media entrepreneurs and CEO Ebonylife production, Mo Abudu and Netflix have entered into a multi-title partnership that will continue growing the company’s investment in Nigerian content. Under this partnership, Abudu through her production company, EbonyLife will create two Netflix original series as well as multiples Netflix, branded films and series that have been licensed to the services In a statement released by Netflix, A major highlight of this partnership will be the on-screen adaptations of literary works by two critically-acclaimed Nigerian authors. A series based on contemporary author, Lola Shoneyin’s best-selling debut novel, ‘The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives’ and a film adaptation of ‘Death And The King’s Horseman’, a play by Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka. “Mo is at the forefront of creative storytelling in African television. Her passion for creating high-quality, riveting multi-genre films and TV shows that capture the imagination while showcasing the diversity and richness of Nigerian culture is evident in her impressive body of work,” said Dorothy Ghettuba, Netflix’s lead for Original Series in Africa. “We’re thrilled about this first-of-its-kind partnership in Africa that will bring some of Nigeria – and Africa’s most iconic storytelling to screen. We look forward to supporting Mo as she brings all these diverse Nigerian stories to the world.” Netflix said the film adaptation of Death and the King’s Horseman will be among the newly-licensed Netflix branded films. One of the films will premiere on the service in 2020. “They added that further details on the two Netflix original series and the slate of Netflix-branded projects that will be licensed from EbonyLife will be shared at a later date. “As a Nigerian storyteller, my biggest motivator has always been to tell authentic and untold stories that resonate with every person, regardless of where they’re from in the world while showcasing our culture, heritage, and creativity,” said Ms Abudu.