Operatives of the Special Strike Force, Lagos State Police Command,  have arrested 185 notorious cultists terrorising residents of Ikorodu and environ, with eight locally made pistols recovered. It was learnt that the Lagos Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had directed the special unit, to launch a manhunt for the cultists, all members of the Eiye, Aiye, Buccaneers and Vikings confraternities, following series of clash in the area. Overdose of vitamin C to fight Coronavirus could cause undesirable effects-Expert warns While one Gbadamosi Mohammed wanted for the murder of  Madariola Sunday, at Ibeshe was part of those arrested, others included Onibudo Afeex, Habeeb Isa,  Felix Igwoke, Taiwo Iyanu, Adeoye Daya and Shodeinde Tosin. Speaking on the arrest of the suspects, the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Elkana Bala said the operatives took the battle to the den of the suspected cultists. Baka said: “ Two weeks ago, the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered the deployment of Special forces from the Command’s tactical Units to Ikorodu and environs to tackle the menace of cultism and gang violence. Operatives of the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants took the battle to the cultists dens at Ikorodu, Ipakodo, Igbogbo, Ibeshe, Shagamu road, Agbowa, among others. “ The operation, which was intelligence driven targeted top leaders and members of various cults and gangs. Rival cult groups, especially in Ikorodu area, have in the last few weeks engaged themselves in supremacy battle with resultant death from both sides. Operatives were given clear instructions to reclaim and dominate the public spaces and ensure that no cult groups or gangs operate in any part of Lagos State. “ The Strike Force has so far arrested 185 notorious cultists and recovered 8 locally made pistols and other dangerous weapons from them. Suspects arrested confessed to belong to Eiye, Aiye, KK, Buccaneers, Vikings confraternities, among others. One Gbadamosi Mohammed, 30, suspected to be among the cultists who killed one Madariola Sunday, at Ibeshe on May 21, was among the suspects arrested. “ Also arrested are Onibudo Afeex, Habeeb Isa,  Felix Igwoke, Taiwo Iyanu, at Femi Taiwo Street, Ikorodu. They were arrested in an uncompleted building holding cult meeting. One Adeoye Daya, 25,  a hit man of Aiye confraternity was arrested at Ikorodu garage with one locally made short gun and rounds of live cartridges. One Shodeinde Tosin, a hit man of Eiye confraternity in Igbogbo was also arrested with a locally made short gun. The Operations will be sustained in all parts of the State until those criminal gangs are totally defeated.”The PPRO also stated that the suspects will be charged to court.