The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) has announced that it has concluded plans to pay first batch of the verified former workers and Next of Kin (NoK) of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) in line with the takeover approval of pension- related matters of some agencies. The Executive Secretary, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme explained that the Directorate carried out a physical verification and biometric capture exercise for eligible ex-workers and Next-of-Kin (NOK) of deceased ex-workers of NAHCO during the Directorate’s nationwide Parastatals Pensioners Verification Exercise conducted in 2019. In a statement issued in Abuja by Gbenga Ajayi, Head of Corporate Communications at PTAD said the collated data were subjected to due processes culminating in the computation and auditing of the entitlements of the verified ex-workers and NoKs. It said that the Executive Secretary affirmed that the Directorate is ready to make payment to the first batch of NAHCO ex-workers and NOKs that are eligible to receive ONE-OFF (FINAL) payment. Dr. Ejikeme emphasized that certain criteria must be met before the pensioners and NoKs to access the benefit. The statement further reads : “The payment to be made is in respect of any outstanding terminal benefit that may exist as at the effective date of NAHCO privatization when the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) entire equity holding in the company was disposed of. “Payment would be made in batches subject to availability of funds.The effective date of the privatization of NAHCO was 31st August, 2005All ex-workers who exited the Company prior to privatization of NAHCO had been fully settled by the Company and do not have any outstanding terminal benefits. “The FGN is not responsible for the period served beyond the effective date of NAHCO privatization and thus all ex-workers and NOKs in this category are not under the purview of PTAD.All NAHCO ex-workers engaged after the effective date of privatization do not qualify for any entitlement under this arrangement. The PTAD boss reiterated the agency’s committment in ensuring that the welfare of Nigerian pensioners is always catered for.