Benin –  Ahead of the Sept. 19 governorship poll, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has donated his 150 support groups to Gov. Godwin Obaseki’s governorship campaign organisation in Edo. Abubakar announced this in a statement made available  on Saturday in Benin. The statement was signed by Mr Oladimeji Fabiyi, Deputy Director of the defunct Atiku Support Group/Mobilization Presidential Campaign Organisation. It quoted Abubakar as directing that the 150 independent support groups in Edo be immediately activated in support of Obaseki, PDP’s flag bearer in the election. It stated further: “The former Vice President, as a major stakeholder of the PDP, considers it expedient to put in place winning structures and machineries that will guarantee total victory for the party in Edo. I accept NWC dissolution in good faith – Oshiomhole “We need to complete the circle in the south-south region that naturally and originally belonged the PDP. “Having received the directive with joy and enthusiasm, I have no doubt that all our support groups in Edo will be very glad to receive this news and run with the directive of Atiku Abubakar for the benefit of Obaseki and the PDP,” it stated. The PDP  had described the outright lie by Kogi state Governor Yahaya Bello, that some PDP governors are planning to cross over to the crisis-ridden All Progressives Congress (APC), as childish, laughable and pathetic. The party says such peddling of falsehood explains why nobody in Nigeria and beyond takes Governor Bello seriously. The PDP lampooned Governor Bello’s claim as a desperate attempt to divert public attention from the imminent mass exodus from the APC. Nigerians are aware that among the ranks of APC governors, Governor Bello has no personal relationship with up to three of his colleagues. No APC governor is ready to associate with Governor Bello openly. In other words, not up to three APC governors take him seriously. Moreover, Governor Bello has no relationship of any sorts with any governor elected on the platform of the PDP. His current delusion, on national television, about PDP governors, is driven by his usual character of engaging in petty lies. It is however imperative to state that nobody abandons a cruising liner, which the PDP represents, to jump into a sinking ship like the APC. It is public knowledge that the APC is disoriented; having sleepless nights and holding endless meetings because they are losing members in droves to the PDP, as most of their key leaders are already on their way out ahead of the collapse of the APC. Unfortunately, Governor Yahaya Bello knows that he has no space in any other political party. No party will accept him after the collapse of the APC. He will therefore not mind telling brazen lies to create the impressions that the APC is still breathing.  