The Ebonyi State Government has donated a building to the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to serve its permanent office in the state. Mr. Charles Akpuenika, the state’s Commissioner for Youth Development and Sports, said this while presenting the building to Mrs. Ann Ibe, the state NYSC Coordinator, on Sunday, in Abakaliki. He said that the donation showed the government’s concern for the scheme. Akpuenika, who is the Chairman of the NYSC Governing Board in the state, said that the state Executive Council (EXCO) approved the donation after a memo on the need for a befitting office for NYSC was presented to it. “The building which was formerly occupied by the state Ministry of Works and Transport, is one of the best official structures in the state. “The state NYSC Coordinator had consistently complained of the dilapidated nature of the present office and this prompted its consideration by the EXCO,” he said. The commissioner said that the state governor has always demonstrated his resolve to enhance the well-being of the NYSC in the state. “The governor became the first in the state’s history to approve N10, 000 monthly allowance for youth corpers in the state, a development that has greatly enhanced their welfare. “He also released N400 million for the reconstruction and renovation works at the NYSC permanent orientation camp in Afikpo with work ongoing at the camp. “All the internal roads and the one leading to the camp have been tarred, hostels and other structures renovated, streetlight installed, steady water supply provided among other amenities,” he said. He urged the NYSC to reciprocate the gesture by adequately maintaining and keeping the building clean to enhance aesthetic status of the state capital. Ibe thanked the governor for the gesture, noting that it would enhance the productivity of the corps in the state. “We are happy to be relocating into a befitting edifice at last as our present office fortunately did not ‘collapse’ on us. “The building’s foundation has been seriously affected by flooding in that area and this has seriously affected us,” she said.