Anambra State Internal Revenue Service (AIRS) has started a harmonised training programme for registration and distribution of the new integrated billing system for improved revenue collection in the state. The training, which kicked off at the AIRS Headquarters, Awka consisted of a team of Community Revenue Officers (CROs) in conjunction with Ministry of Trade and Commerce, the Anambra State Waste Management Agency (ASWAMA), Anambra State Signage and Advertising Agency (ANSSA), Business Premises and Fire Service. The integrated billing system is an innovation that harmonises all billings including ASWAMA, Business Premises, ANSSA, Fire Service Compliance billing into one. According to the Chairman, Dr. David Nzekwu, the training will be in batches to enable the trainees to know what is expected of them, pursuant to the harmonised billing. It would also provide avenue for officers to get to know the revenue officers from AIRS. “The training will formally integrate all staff members of Ministries, Departments and Agencies involved, for effective and optimum revenue collections with regards to the newly created automated billing system,’’ he stated. The integrated billing system is a new innovation that harmonises all bills that include Business Premises, ASWAMA, and ANSAA bills among others. A release signed by the Deputy Director and Head Tax Taxpayer Education and Enlightenment Team, Sylvia Tochukwu-Ngige, said the mobile distribution of the harmonised bills will help the Taxpayers in Anambra State to directly pay their bills to government coffers, thereby helping to prevent issues of over taxation, double taxation and efforts of revenue fraudsters who extort money from unsuspecting taxpayers, especially now that the world is experiencing COVID-19 pandemic. The Integrated Billing System adopted by Anambra State Internal Revenue Service comes with a code for particular revenue to be paid for. The Anambra State Internal Revenue Service therefore appealed to the residents and people of state to support the new innovation and the revenue officers carrying out the mobile distribution of the integrated bills in the state.