…To withdraw suit at Supreme Court …Assures Buhari, APC of loyalty The former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole finally broke his silence on the suspension of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) on Friday by accepting the decision of the National Executive Committee (NEC) in good faith. Addressing the press at his Aso Drive, Abuja  residence on Saturday, Oshiomhole said he will not challenge the  dissolution but maintain his loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Resigning to faith Oshiomhole said “as a demonstration of my loyalty to Mr President, loyalty to our party and loyalty to Nigeria nation , I have decided to accept the decision in good faith and to maintain  my loyalty, my respect and admiration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “I’m not going into the question of legality or illegality. The bottom line is that the President who invited me to lead the party and who mobilised all the support for my emergence as chairman also presided over the meeting where the NWC has now been dissolved”. He promised to discontinue legal action against the party over his suspension by an Abuja based Federal Court of Appeal, Oshiomhole said he has instructed his legal team to flag down action. He said “accordingly, I have instructed my lawyers to withdraw my case that is currently pending at the Supreme Court which has to do with the issue of my suspension. To sustain the legal action would be tantamount to disobeying one of the decisions that the President has made. “I have a duty to live by example. I have taken a bow and accept the decision of the NEC”. He said he did not regret his action as a committed party member whose schedule of assignment by President Buhari was to stabilize the party. “Mr President graciously invited me to run for the office of chairmanship of the party in 2018 precisely about two years ago. The president told me then that if we do not reform the APC, we can as well forget about the party. “You know that reforms are challenging and it will entail taking difficult decisions. Mine has been a life of trouble and I accepted this and I believe I did my best. I’m happy that at the end of the day, 2019 elections have come and gone thanks to Nigerian people, our president had more votes in 2019 than we had in 2015. We have more members in the senate and house of representatives. “Unlike 2015 we were not able to manage our victory in the two chambers such that we had an APC president in the senate and PDP deputy senate president. “This time working hard with my colleagues in the NWC and in consultation of leaders of our party across board we have the kind of unity expected in the governing party in the two chambers of the national assembly. “I’m happy that the leadership of the national assembly is working harmoniously with mr president. “The APC under my chairmanship has done its best and the results are there. Of course we have now been dissolved and I have accepted that dissolution in good fate”, he proudly submitted.