…Says PDP revives his political career …Commends PDP’s value of justice, law and order …Present Shaibu to party as running mate …Gov Bala Mohammed submits Primary Election Committee report to party Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki has expressed eternal appreciation to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for rallying round to save him and his deputy, Phillip Shuaibu from political humiliation in the hands of their former party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor who is seeking a reelection on the platform of the PDP in the September 19 Edo state governorship election also commended the virtues and core values of the party which he said stand unwavering. Obaseki spoke at the PDP national secretariat on Saturday while receiving a return certificate as the winner of Thursday’s governorship primaries of the party and flag bearer in the main election. The governor said to the leadership of PDP, “I and my deputy are very grateful to this great party. Like I said, you will never know what God has destined for you. In our hours of tribulation, when we were pushed out in the rains and storm from our political party, you came out with that huge umbrella to give us cover and shelter. “It was only when we entered the house that we then realised that this was the house we should have been in the first instance. Because we now saw that the values in the house are the values we cherish and the values we live for, values of justice, values of law and order, values of care for our people, putting the people first. “These are the values we have always been in pursuit of, which we found in this new house in which we have been graciously accommodated. He appreciated the soft landing given to him and his deputy as well as other APC decampees by the PDP, while promising not to disappoint the leadership of the party. “I must thank members of the National Working Committee, the quality of governance, the quality of response that I have witnessed, that have enabled us achieve much in less than one week because of the responsiveness of the National Organising Secretary. “They followed up on every issue and every document. When issues came up, the National Legal Adviser was there to respond to all our inquiries. The National Publicity Secretary checked on us every day. “We want to tell you that we are very grateful and to assure you that the Edo people told us that ‘wherever you go, we will go’. On further consultation they told us that there was a party where most of us came from, and explored the possibility of us going back there. So by the grace of God, we have no doubt that victory is going to be ours on September 19. He presented to the party his deputy, Phillip Shuaibu as his running mate in the coming gubernatorial poll. The governor said “I want to commit to you that in line with the ideal and motto of this party, me and my deputy, by the grace of God, is going to be my running mate, for the September 19 election, because you do not change a winning team. ” I want to commit to you that we shall promote the ideals of this great party and you can always count on us. Whenever the National Working Committee calls on us, we will be there. “We have no choice because from what I have seen from my brother governors in this party, what they have done and what they did for us in the party, revived my political career, I have never seen that level of commitment. Earlier, Bauchi state governor, Senator Bala Mohammed presented the report of the Edo State Primary Election Committee to the National Working Committee of PDP. He said the journey for picking the party’s candidate for the Edo election which started with the sale of nomination form on May 20th culminated in a successfully conducted, rancour free primaries which produced Gov. Obaseki as winner. Admitting that three of the aspirants voluntarily stepped down for Obaseki on the day of the June 25 primary, he said they did so “because of the stallion qualities of Governor Godwin Obaseki and because of the kind of leadership we have given where consultations were held with the aspirants, my colleagues at the Governors Forum and the National Working Committee”. He said because of the provision of the electoral act, the committee went ahead and held the primary to the glare of everybody. He said “we have to categorize, invalid because of the invalidation and voluntary withdrawal of the candidates and one lone candidate, which was HE Governor Godwin Obaseki. The election was held and of course at the end of the day all was peaceful. “After the election we had 72 invalid votes and Governor Godwin Obaseki scored 1952 with the total votes cast being 2024.  Everything went in line with the accredited voters and we have the results here with us. “And other documents we’re other candidates voluntarily agreed to step down. And for the first time in Edo, we have a rancor free election where there was no mistrust, no suspicion, no  infight. Everybody was in line and of course, even our elders were there, members of the Board of Trustees, elders of the party, the youth, the woman everybody applauded the election”. Receiving the report on behalf of the NWC, the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus said the report showed that the party is a very thorough party which is  guided by rules. The conduct of the Edo primary, he said, is an improvement from what was achieved from the  last national convention while promising to continue to improve its performances, to make sure that its internal mechanism is the best for the Nigeria people. “We believe in one man, one vote. And we believe in transparency, free and fair election. This is the only party that can provide that. “We all watched the exercise, before we came here, Nigerians have agreed that what happened at Edo was the best. It was free, fair and open for everybody to see. Members of the ruling party, the APC watched it throughout the night and they couldn’t sleep. “So we commend you and your team. We will continue to do more with our primaries and congresses to give confidence to our people. And to make sure that our party is for the people to believe in themselves and have confidence in themselves that they can participate. “And our party is all inclusive. And as you can see our governors in the state we control are the best. We have the best governors, we have the best states with good. “So we believe that in a few days, that the governor came from APC to PDP, he is enjoying his stay. This is a party of justice, this is a party of equity, this is a party of fairness. The power belongs to the people. It is not us, it is you, so the power belongs to you”, Secondus said.