The Coalition of Public Interest Lawyers and Advocates (COPA) has commended the Nigerian Police for exhibiting high sense of intelligence in various investigations of rape allegations in the country. Mr Pelumi Olajengbesi, Convener of COPA, gave the commendation in an interview with the Daily Times in Abuja on Saturday. Olajengbesi said the commendation became necessary following the conclusion of investigation on the allegation of rape levelled against Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA). The allegation was instituted by Mrs Busola Dakolo, wife of Nigerian inspirational singer, Timi Dakolo. It would be recalled that Mrs Dakolo dragged Fatoyinbo to court for allegedly raping her about 20 years ago before she turned 18, an allegation Fatoyinbo denied. The Criminal Intelligence and Investigative Department, Force Headquarters, Abuja, had in a letter in March confirmed it had concluded the investigation and had forwarded the case file to the Director of Public Prosecution of the Federation (DPPF). Olajengbesi said credit should be given to the Police for the thorough investigation, given the time it took them to conclude the work and forward to DPPF for prosecution. “Yes, we’ve received communication on the progress of the investigation and the transfer of the Police’s findings to the DPP. “We are excited and hopeful by this development, even as we believe that justice delayed cannot be denied. “The crime of rape is heinous and must never be tolerated as that will give impetus to the culprit to victimise others. “Mr Fatoyinbo will have to go through the test of the law and establish his innocence if possible. “We now patiently await the ministry’s activation of the instrumentality of the law to prosecute Mr Fatoyinbo. “Fatoyinbo’s conviction, if found guilty, will prove to the world, Nigeria’s stern and zero tolerance for criminality, regardless of who is involved. “This is necessary for positioning our country as where the rule of law reigns supreme. “The ball is now in the court of the ministry of justice through the DPP. “We express the hope and faith that justice will finally be served in this matter,’’ Olajengbesi said. (NAN