A $2bn procurement fund aimed at ensuring that poorer countries can access doses of a potential coronavirus vaccine has been announced at a virtual summit hosted by the UK. The announcement was made at the third Gavi vaccine alliance replenishment summit, a virtual pledging event that separately raised $8.8bn, above the target of $7.4bn, for the private-public alliance’s general work on immunising millions of people worldwide from longstanding diseases such as measles. PHOTOS: Lawan leads Senate delegation on solidarity visit to Kalu after his release from Kuje correctional facility The Guardian UK, the summit, the third replenishment summit since Gavi was formed 20 years ago, took on an extra significance as world leaders battle to set up a mechanism to ensure that any effective coronavirus vaccine is produced at a scale possible to ensure it is not just distributed to the countries that either can afford it or have invested in its research. The worldwide scramble for masks and ventilators that erupted in the early stages of the pandemic, when countries including France requisitioned the nation’s entire supply of masks and the US apparently paid off the shippers of loads already on airplanes to obtain ventilators, does not bode well for global cooperation if and when a coronavirus vaccine becomes available. “Rich countries will most likely try to push their way to the front of the queue, leaving poorer countries at the back, and that’s a problem,” said Jimmy Whitworth, a professor of international public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “I can’t imagine any country saying, ‘Africa’s need is greater than ours, so they can get the vaccine first and we’ll remain vulnerable.’” The fund is modelled on previous work Gavi has done with pneumococcal and Ebola vaccines. It is aiming to raise $2bn in the first instance. Gavi said it had so far raised $567m of this target. “By providing volume guarantees for specific candidates before they are licenced, as well as market-wide guarantees, the Gavi Covax AMC will encourage manufacturers to make investments in production capacity,” Gavi said. “This in turn increases supply availability and reduces the amount of time it takes for licenced vaccines to become available, particularly to the poorest countries around the world.” AstraZeneca announced it was the first vaccine manufacturer to sign up to the Gavi Covax AMC. Under the terms of a $750 contract with Gavi, AstraZeneca will guarantee 300 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine that it is developing in collaboration with the University of Oxford. These doses will be supplied on receiving a licence or prequalification by the World Health Organisation, and are targeted for the end of the year. AstraZeneca and Oxford said they had “committed to operating on a not-for-profit basis for the duration of the coronavirus pandemic period to enable broad and equitable access, including for low and lower-middle income countries”.