A governorship aspirant  on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Ondo State, Otunba Bamidele Akingboye has berated the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, for alleged bad governance and for rolling out the drums to celebrate the commissioning of a 10 kilometer road. He said this is the height of insensitivity in governance which is the hallmark of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government. Akingboye, however, said, he is ready to bring government closer to the Ondo State people at the grassroots if given the mandate as PDP candidate in the October 10 governorship election. He said he is ashamed as an indigene of the state to see the state governor calling out the people and the media to celebrate a mere 10km road construction. “Any governor that knows what he is doing should not take what we call the necessities of life – light, water and road for granted. This is what a governor should do without the people asking. “If you want to do your road or your light or your water, these are things you can do normally, it is not something you should celebrate. Without being a governor even some philanthropists are doing these things in the state. “Why should a state governor now do a road of 10km and they are celebrating it? To me I don’t succumb to it. If you industrialise your state, they should appraise it and applaud you. If you create employment for your people they should applaud you for that, but not by doing the necessities of life.” The aspirant who has 35 years cognate experience in the business cycle as an entrepreneur, said he will industrialise the state and bring the dividend of democracy back to the people by teaching them how to fish, how to create wealth and to use their mineral resources to the maximum. READ ALSO: June 12: We’ll continue the struggle until Nigeria is restructured into federating units–Gani Adams “I want to create wealth in Ondo State; I want to teach them how to fish. Thousands of Ondo State indigenes will have jobs. Of course we all know that there are no jobs in Ondo State, but I will create employment for them. “I will also create jobs for some youths in Ondo State across the 18 local governments, I will make them millionaires and it is very simple. There will be an intervention fund for these young ones, for them to do jobs that are needed in the local government. I will make sure that this money do not get to them just like that, you have to learn something. “From one of our polytechnics I will set up an SME department for them to learn how to do soap, how to do shoe, how to tie head gears so that they can invest this money into the system, immediately they get in, they will get their profit and with this, they can create more jobs. “During the regime of former President Obasanjo, my company Clog Oil Systems Ltd. was the only company they gave a pilot project in one of the blocs in Ondo State and about four years ago my company signed a pact with a consortium in China for over $3billion for them to come and work on this bitumen. “It is something I have been working on, but if I don’t have the status of a governor, it will be difficult for me to go and secure a loan of $3billion to do a work in Ondo State, so that I won’t go and run at a loss. So we are working on that seriously and we have a team that is working on that.” he stated.