Founder of Biafra Independence Movement (BIM) and Movement for Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike, has lambasted the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, for using the Radio Biafra based in London to insult and abuse people, particularly Igbo leaders and elders. Uwazuruike, on behalf of Ndigbo,  apologized to everyone that has been affected by the incessant insults , abuses and blackmails from radio Biafra, London broadcasts or any other Biafra news channels. Uwazuruike who is the founder of new Biafra as well as the radio Biafra London and every one that is fighting for Biafra today was trained by him , either directly or indirectly so whatsoever they have committed in the course of this fight he ( Uwazuruike) is the one to be held responsible. Uwazuruike in a statement signed by his special Assistant on social media matters, Comrade Emma N.Nnadi, said that it was very unfortunate that one of his trained directors is using the radio as a platform to insult and blackmail our Elder statesmen like Chief Pete Edochie, Nnia Nwodo, Church and Muslim leaders. Barca annoyed, frustrated after Celta draw, says Suarez He explained that his real reason for floating the UK based radio station was to propagate the Biafra struggle and the senseless killings and marginalization of Igbo Christians in the nigeria to the world . Uwazuruike who is father of New Biafra Nation, further stated that it was this wanton killings of Ndigbo in Nigeria was what made him to start the agitation for Biafra in September 13, 1999, declaring that the struggle is still much alive and that in no distant time that Biafra will be a sovereign, Independent state because his movement has made tremendous achievements. He regretted that none of those who engaged in insulting our illustrious sons on social media platforms were born during the Biafra- Nigeria civil war and some of them when he (Uwazuruike) started the New Biafra struggle in September 13, 1999, recalling his ordeal in the year 2000 when he stormed Lome, Togo, as he managed to appear before the main bowl of the African heads of state summit. He added that at such a summit in Lome, Togo, that he was not meant to return home alive if not for the quick intervention of the former Libyan president, Mummar Ghaddafi and UN Secretary-general General,, Mr. Koffi Anan both of who intervened for my release from detention.According to him, there was nothing like the social media to show to the world what he did at time. The Igbo leader admitted that Nnamdi Kanu did some good works by helping him in spreading the Gospel of Biafra to all the nooks and crannies of the world with the availiability of materials at his disposal, but he however maintained that he (Uwazuruike) should take the credit first because he (Uwazuruike) was the one who opened the radio Biafra- London and employed him (Nnamdi Kanu) as director in 2009 for the sole aim of spreading the plight of the Biafran people to the world. So what Nnamdi Kanu was doing was the same thing he (Uwazuruike) wanted him to do abnitio but not to insult and blackmail our respected leaders . Continuing he said, ” If The New Biafra will be a country where the freedom of religious worship will not be guarranteed, to hell with it. If the New Biafra will not be better than Nigeria, to hell with it. If the New Biafra will be where some one like Chief Pete Edochie, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, Chief Nnia Nwodo , Alhaji Asari Dokubo ( Elabo Edi Abali) and every other elders of the church in the land, to hell with it” How could the shouting that a president of Nigeria is dead and buried in our quest for Biafra- or insuting religious leaders or by attacking our brothers in the coastal area give us recognition?, Uwazuruike queried See less