 President of the National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS), Barr. Ken Ukaoha says that over 600 shops belonging to Nigerian traders are still under lock and key in Ghana, a situation he described as unfortunate and a barrier to trade relationships between Nigeria and Ghana. Ukaoha’s concern is coming on the heels of the recent demolition of the Nigerian embassy in Ghana over the weekend which has been received with wide condemnation by the federal government and Nigerians. Speaking on “Good Morning Nigeria”, a current affairs Programme on the Nigerian Television Authority, he also said that the Nigerian government must take decisive action to save Nigerian traders on Ghana and also fix its diplomatic relations. “As we speak, from December 1st 2019 till date over 600 shops belonging to Nigerian traders in Ghana is still under lock and key on the orders of the Ghanian government. The situation is sad and government must take decisive action if not the entire fulcrum of trade and economic relationships may have problems. “There is no country in the world where you won’t find Nigerian traders. Also, we have 40million traders here in the country as such we demand they are treated fairly and provided with a conducive atmosphere to do business,” he said. According to the NANTS President, Nigerian traders would not want to see a repeat of what happened to its members in South Africa which is why the government must act in time. Commenting on some trade policies of the government, he applauded the federal government for ensuring that there is proper consultation and analysis of benefits and disadvantages ahead of the kick-off of the Africa Continental FreeTrade Area (AfCFTA) which has now been extended to January 2020. Flood: NESREA tasks Gombe residents on waste management Ukaoha also said the closure of the country’s border since August 2019 has ensured smuggling of food items is checkmated and also provided an atmosphere for Nigerian traders and farmers to up their game in producing what the country needs rather than importing what the country can produce.