Mr Olayide Adelami, one of the Ondo state governorship aspirants under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has pledged to ensure full financial autonomy for all the local government councils in the state, if elected in the Oct. 10, poll. Adelami, a former Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly, said this on Wednesday shortly after obtaining the APC expression of interest and nomination forms at the National Secretariat in Abuja. “Now, looking at Ondo State over the years, I know what and what we need to do. If the people give their mandate I am going to ensure full financial autonomy for local governments in the state. “For instance, local government autonomy is a burning issue in all the states of the federation and first item on my manifesto, I am going to grant financial autonomy to local governments. “Because I believe that the third tier of government is the government of the grassroots. “The statutory allocation of the local government, if that money is spent in local government, then the economic tempo will increase. “The pervasive poverty we are witnessing in the state today will be a thing of the past,” he said. Adelami said that he would also redefine governance to ensure that the state’s resources were harnessed and tapped to enhance youth employment and food sufficiency in the state. “Talking about the politics of Ondo State, I am coming up on a rescue mission. “Ondo State is endowed with a lot of resources after Lagos, I cannot think of any other state with resources like the state,” he said. According to him, but what has happened over the years, these resources have been under tapped. “You know leadership makes a difference. Other leaders that have come on board at one time or the other have tried their best, even including the current Governor. “He has tried his best but what I’m saying is that his best is not enough. I want to improve in that best. I want to take the state to a higher level. “It is going to be a new era of governance and by the grace of God, Ondo people will be happy with my coming on board,” Adelami said.