A police sergeant Okema Asuquo, is currently being held at the State Criminal Investigations Department (SCID), Yaba, for the murder of a police Inspector, Adekunle Ilesami Francis. It was gathered that Asuquo, lived in the same compound with the deceased at Oke – Odo. Information has it that the sergeant, an alcholic was notorious for intimidating residents, especially his neighbours. He had allegedly returned home drunk over the weekend, and had engaged a neighbour in a fight when the Inspector intervened. The suspect it was learnt, chased the said neighbour with cutlass, shouting at the top of his voice that he would kill him.Knowing the implication of the suspect’s action if left unchecked, Francis, an officer attached to the Special Protection Unit (SPU) 2, Ikeja, had to intervene, pleading that the sergeant let go and drop the cutlass. The plea fell on deaf ears as Asuquo pounced on Francis, giving him terrible cuts on parts of his body. The Inspector was rushed to the hospital, but had lost so much blood. He died on Monday morning. A friend of the deceased, who did not want his name on print, called for an unbiased investigation into the crime. Osinbajo to commission Dukia – Heritage Bank gold and precious metal buying centres He ssid: “ The sergeant drives a fully tinted Toyota Camry car with no plate number. He was  reported at the  Oke-Odo, Ile Epo Police Station for his previous actions but nothing was done to call him to order before he perpetrated this evil act.”I saw Inspector Francis on his hospital bed. He was still alive then. Unfortunately, I received a call from his brother, Ojo Adekunle that he just passed on. “The doctor also confirmed his death. I am using this medium to appeal to the Lagos Commissioner of Police,  Hakeem Odumosu,  to do the needful and prosecute this killer sergeant that has been terrorising everyone in the vicinity. This kind of character should not be in the Nigeria Police Force. ”Confirming the arrest of the suspect, the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana said investigations was ongoing. He said: ” On June 4, 2020 at about 8:10 p.m., one Azees Adebayo of No 8. Dosumu Street, Agbelekale Oke-Odo reported  at Oke-Odo Police Station that one Sergeant Okema Azuquo a tenant in the same house returned home and engaged other tenants in a fight. That he inflicted matchet cuts on one Inspector Adekunle Ilesanmi who is also a tenant in the house. “ The Inspector was  trying to stop the sergeant from harming other civilian tenants. Ayodele Eyitayo, a tenant in the house also sustained minor injury on his face. A team of Policemen led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), was promptly deployed to the scene. The injured persons were taken to hospital for treatment while the Sergeant was arrested. “ While Ayodele Eyitayo was treated and discharged, the Inspector was admitted due to the severity of the injuries he sustained. The Inspector however, died on June 7, 2020 while on admission. Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Yaba, has taken over the investigation.”Elkana stated that the suspect will be charged to court as soon as investigation and disciplinary  proceedings are concluded. 