…Decry spate of kidnapping, killings, armed banditry across Nigeria The House of Representatives have invited the National Security Adviser, all the security chiefs, Director, Department of State Security and Inspector General of Police to brief the House on the state of insecurity in the country. This was sequel to a motion by Rep. Sada Soli (APC-Katsina) which was unanimously adopted at plenary on Thursday. At Thursday’s plenary session, the lawmakers also kicked against negotiations with bandits by some governors in the north. While debating a motion introduced by Sada Soli from Katsina state, they said the service chiefs must brief them on efforts to address Nigeria’s security challenges. Moving the motion earlier, Soli said that there was need for the security experts to brief the house on effort being made to ensure safety of lives and properties of citizens. He said that there was need to know the way forward to bring an end to the killings, kidnapping and armed banditry at the next seating. Soli said that that in recent time, the security situation in some parts of the country has degenerated. The Rep said that cases of kidnapping, killings and armed banditry have become a daily occurrence across the country, especially in Niger, Sokoto, Zamfara Kaduna and Katsina. He said that the Presidential directives had not helped to drastically reduce cases of kidnaping, killings and banditry in the country. According to him, “this is due to lack of sustained tempo in the intervention, these criminals have continued to regroup in different camps in the government reserve forests and surrounding villages across the country. “The magnitude of the attacks on various communities have reached an alarming rate as these criminals have continued to perpetuate their criminal acts unabated. “If this criminality is not urgently addressed, there will be an imminent present danger to our food security in the country. “Any deferment by the security agencies to abridge the continuous horror and inhumanity will result to an enormous loss of lives, destruction of properties and immobilise the Socio-Economic and Educational activities of various communities,” he said. Soli said that the country is battling to contain the dangerous community infection rate of COVID-19. He added that with the persistent attacks by criminals on farming communities across the country, especially in the North-West and North Central, may result to serious food shortage. According to him, about 500 Primary Schools and 2000 communities were completely destroyed across the country as a result of these incessant kidnappings, killings and armed banditry attacks. He said that the criminals are armed to the teeth with weapons supplied by gun runners living in cosmopolitan cities across the country. Rep. Gudaji Kazaure (APC-Jigawa) said that banditry had caused more havoc in the country than COVID-19 According to him, if government could give such attention to COVID-19, why have we not seen the same attention directed to banditry. The lawmaker said the bandits come out in their hundreds and operate for hours without any intervention from security personnel. He said if this is allowed to continue, there would be food shortages and people might resort to self help which would lead to a total breakdowns flaw and order. Kazaure said that it was embarrassing for a sitting governor to be negotiating with bandits because security agencies had failed in their duties. He said that the primary function of government is the protection of lives and properties and government must raise up to its responsibilities. Rep. Victor Mela (APC-Gombe) threatened to resign from the House of Representatives if nothing would be done to address the security situation within the next two months. Speaker of the house, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, said that Rep. Victor Mela was very important and the house would not want to loose him. He said that the leadership of the House would continue to engage all security agencies on a monthly basis on the progress being made until normalcy is restored. Meanwhile, suspected bandits have killed 21 people and wounded 12 others during attacks in some villages in Maru and Talata Mafara Local Government Areas of Zamfara State. Confirming the incident, spokesman of the state police command, Mohammed Shehu, said the bandits attacked Tungar Malan, Manyan Karaje, Tungar Arne, Dangodon Maiyakane, Dangodon Mai Masallaci and Boleke villages in Maru Local Government between the 2nd and 3rd of June, 2020, with the intention to rustle cows. He said when confronted by members of a militia group known as “YAN SAKAI”, the bandits started shooting sporadically, and this resulted in the death of fifteen people, while seven others sustained gun shot wounds and were rushed to the hospital for treatment. Speaking further, the police spokesman said bandits also attacked and killed six persons and wounded five others at four other villages including Gidan Dan Kani, Tungar lauti, Inwala and Dangodo in Talata Mafara Local Government. He explained that the victims were attacked and killed while coming back from a funeral prayer. According to the police spokesman, investigations have been launched into the recent attacks, with an assurance that the bandits will be brought to book.