“It has become so scary that bandits now fix the amount of money to be paid before farmers in Zamfara are allowed access to their farms. And if the northerners don’t farm, we all know what  …. So, I am calling on you, President Muhammadu Buhari to come to our aid. Professor Shehu Usman Adamu has said. Professor Adamu speaking in Hausa language and in tears, in a video post decried the plight of the North and its citizens as he  called on the President Buhari come and rescue those who stood by him and voted him into office. saying that because they love him doesn’t mean they shouldn’t tell him the bitter truth when things seemed not to be working, at all Saƙon Farfesa Shehu Usman Adamu Dan Fulani zuwa ga Shugaba Kasa Muhammadu Buhari akan taɓarɓar tsaro anan Arewacin Najeriya pic.twitter.com/f2achwW7dZ The Professor of Parasitology and a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Kaduna and a former Commissioner of Education in Kaduna State under Governor Nasir Elrufai lamented that presently the north is in ‘serious’ problem and bedevilled with monumental developmental challenges, under President Buhari. Professor Adamu also called  Danfulani said “Roads contracts in other geo-political zones have been completed or almost completed but the ones in North have been abandoned, and till Buhari finishes his second term in office, prominent road projects in the North such as the Kano-Abuja expressway, and several others will remain uncompleted,” .. 2.OPEN LETTERHon. Shehu Usman Adamu Former Rep. Soba/Maigana Constituency.Reminder @MBuhari @OfficialAPCNg #AishaBuhari @nassnigeria @bbchausa @OfficialPDPNig @BashirAhmaad @GarShehu on National issues facing the North. pic.twitter.com/m2gBSCU7MU He said: “The condition of roads in the North have further become deplorable. Talking about railway, the railway line from Kano to Abuja via Kaduna is still a dream. Nothing has been done. No to talk about the one they promised to do from Kano, to Katsina, then Daura.” Danfulani, who profusely was shedding tears while speaking, said many Nigerians were excited about the dignity Buhari restored to the farming profession, through his diversification agenda, launched immediately after he assumed office in 2015. He however, added that farming has become almost impossible amid the prevailing insecurity ravaging the country. He maintained that it is disturbing that bandits have continued to unleash mayhem on innocent farmers and ordinary villagers in Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina, Kaduna and several places in the North. Hon Shehu Usman Adamu (Dan Fulani) ya magantu. @BashirAhmaad @MBuhari @TheAishabuhari @ShehuSani @SenatorOba @OvieOmoAgege @dino_melaye @senatorbash @SIAmosun @SenatorGusau @SenBalaMohammed @almadaks @Sadiya_farouq @GarShehu @BossMustaphSGF Akaiwa Buhari Sakonna pic.twitter.com/Od8ClX23YC A situation, he said, has affected the productive activities of farming and source of livelihood for many peasant farmers in the North. Professor Adamu, who once contested for a seat in the Kaduna State House of Assembly, while decrying the spate of killings in Borno and other States in the North, said: “It has become so scary that bandits now fix the amount of money to be paid before farmers in Zamfara are allowed access to their farms. And if Northerners don’t farm, we all know what it will spell. So, I am calling on you, President Muhammadu Buhari to come to our aid. Come and rescue those who stood by you and voted you into office. That we love you doesn’t mean we shouldn’t tell you the bitter truth when things seemed not to be working, at all.” 