The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Etsako Ward 10, Mr. Oshawo Stephen, has dismissed claims that the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as a member of the party has been lifted, insisting that the ward executives stand by their suspension of the erstwhile National Chairman of the APC. In a statement, Mr. Stephen said the ward executives who were elected into office in 2018 remain intact and have not been displaced by anybody, describing the claims of the lifting of the suspension as a charade. According to him, “The suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by the ward executives remains valid. The statements to the contrary in the media are false and should be disregarded. We stand by our decision and have no reservation on the action as it is in the best interest of the party. “The ward executives as well as our counterparts at the Etsako West Local Government level stand by the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole for his divisive role in the crisis rocking the APC in Edo State.” Meanwhile, the Chairman APC in Etsako West LGA, Ezolomhe Rabiat, also affirmed that the LGA executives are still members of the party in the state and stand by the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole But the APC Vice Chairman, Mrs Adizetu Jafaru and Secretary, Emuakemeh Sule in Ward 10, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo, had lifted the suspension placed on Adams Oshiomhole. Seventeen members of the executive committee, led by the ward’s Vice Chairman, Mrs Adizetu Jafaru and Secretary, Emuakemeh Sule, said this in Abuja on Saturday while meeting the APC National Working Committee (NWC). Police nab man, 40, over alleged child abuse in Onitsha Recall that few days ago, the Court of Appeal upheld the judgment of an Abuja High Court, which suspended Oshiomhole from the party. Sule said that the executive committee of APC Etsako ward 10, made the resolution after its meeting on June 4. at the party’s secretariat Apana-Uzairue,  Edo. “We have reviewed the circumstances leading to the suspension of Oshiomhole and found no merit in the allegation or processes employed. “We hereby lift the suspension placed on Oshiomhole by the ward. “We call on all organs of our great party to restore all rights and privileges of membership to  Oshiomhole,” the party’s scribe said. The acting APC National Chairman, Abiola Ajimobi, represented by the National Vice Chairman, South/South, Hilliard Etta, recieved the ward officials. “Let me say that 17 out of 27 members have signed this resolution. Let me also say that in matters of this nature, our constitution provides for only a simple majority and 17 out of 27 is indeed more than a simple majority. “So, we want to use this opportunity to thank Etsako West Ward 10 for what they have done. History will be on your side. “I am also in receipt of the acceptance and ratification of that resolution by the Etsako West LGA executive dated the 9th of June 2020 and signed by the Chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Akokia and the Secretary, Hon. Dauda Ahmed. “I am also in receipt of  further ratification by the state executive committee of the APC in Edo state signed by Col. David Imuse (rtd) the acting state Chairman and Lawrence O. Oka, state Secretary,” he said. According to him, the party’s NWC will meet and deliberate on the resolutions by the ward,  local and state organs of the party, for ratification.  