The Edo state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who moved to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has said that he is prepared to provide leadership that will lead PDP to victory not only in Edo State but in the country. Doctors’ Strike: Ministers of Labour, Health brief Buhari Obaseki, moved to the PDP  to pursue his ambition of seeking re-election for a second term in the September, 2020 gubernatorial poll in the state after his disqualification from the All Progressives Congress. The governor speaking to a gathering of PDP members and supporters, said: “I am here to inform you that upon my resignation from the APC, having consulted widely from within the state and across the country, I have decided to become a member of the PDP. “As has been demonstrated, this is a party that is rooted in democratic practices; it believes in justice and fairness and respects its members. Today is not the day I will make a speech. You will hear from me soon. “I am here to go through the formalities of registering as a member of this great party. I know that upon taking membership of this party, I automatically become the leader of the party; that is the constitution. I read it thoroughly last night.” “I want to assure all of you that I am prepared to provide leadership that will lead the party to victory. I will provide a leadership that will not only put PDP ahead in Edo State but, as a ruling party in Edo State, we will make sure that the level of progress, growth and participation in the political system by our people is unrivaled in this country. “I am very happy to be here. The reception I have received has been ecstatic. The energy I see here is the kind of energy I require to take Edo to the next level.” Noting that he was committed to changing the narrative of the party in the state, Obaseki said, “If you think we have done a lot in the last four years, you haven’t seen anything yet. With the quality of people I have seen here, the quality of people running the party, and the energy of youth I see, by the grace of God who made this day possible, I am committing to you that I will not only lead this party to victory in Edo State, but we will make sure that this party sets an example of how states should be run in Africa. Today, it is with great pleasure, Mr. Chairman, that I have come to formally take on my membership of this great party. The governor was received by the National Vice Chairman, South-south of the PDP, Chief Emmanuel Ogidi, in the company of the PDP State Chairman, Mr. Anthony Aziegbemi and other party executives, including the governor’s ward chairman. “I am very happy to be here. With the reception I have received since I drove in here has been ecstatic. The energy I see in this party is the kind of energy I require to take Edo to the level we should go to next.” Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki, formally joins the People’s Democratic Party, @OfficialPDPNig pic.twitter.com/MEr2MRQPgH Happening Now: Edo state governor Godwin Obaseki @GovernorObaseki officially joins the People’s Democratic Party @OfficialPDPNig (PDP) pic.twitter.com/PBwXBKyrO7