.Promises proactive, responsive approach to party lead Despite the appeal made by President Muhammadu Buhari during the last National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to aggrieved members of the party with matters in court relating to intra party disputes to withdraw same, the party’s Caretaker/Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, has added its voice, making a passionate appeal to all aggrieved party members that instituted various cases in the court of law to withdraw same in the interest of the party. Chairman of the committee, Mai Mala Buni, who is also the Yobe State governor, made the appeal during the swearing-in of other committee members in Abuja on Monday, saying that the committee will concentrate on medium and long term development of strategies and internal organisation to support public standing and chances of electoral successes in all future elections. “I am delighted to address you today on this very historic occasion in the life of our great party. It was six years ago when the APC came on board. What separates us from other political parties and endeared us to Nigerians are the sincerity of purpose, our principles of internal democracy and the unblemished integrity of the founders of our party. “Nigerians have trusted and still have the trust in us that the party will create a country of our dream with a prosperous future. “As the party trusted by Nigerians and voted massively for two times in a row, we must shun away from any attempt to distract us from delivering the dividend of democracy to Nigerians. “What happened to us as a party in the last few months is not totally strange in a big political party such as the APC, internal disagreements are common in all political parties, so ours is not an exception. It is time for this committee therefore, to commence the process of true reconciliation among leaders and members of the party at all levels. “It is our belief that the decision by NEC to constitute this committee will mark the beginning of a new chapter in our great party. To achieve this, I urge all party members to heed to the appeal by our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, on his call to all aggrieved members who have instituted various cases in the courts to please withdraw such cases in the interest of our great party. Chairman of Madandola Group, Chief Bode Akindele is Dead “Change is inevitable and disagreement on issues and concepts are an integral part of human and institutional relationship. As a political party built on strong ideology and, parading men and women of enduring principle and integrity, we must prepare for real and anticipated changes and their consequences. The outcomes of changes that evolve in our party politics must be decided by us. “As the interim managers and leaders of our party, our priority would be the recognition of the need to act appropriately and acceptably in the overall interest of the party. Our actions in the next few months would be proactive and responsive. “From now onward, we will concentrate on medium and long term development of our strategies and internal organisation to support our public standing as well as our chances of electoral successes in all future elections. “This is the time for us to focus with determination to create adaptive institutional capacity to weather the current divisions in our party. I call on leaders and members of our great party to put the past behind us and strengthen ourselves for all current and future challenges. “We will not be here today repositioning our party if not for the timely intervention of our indefatigable leader, the President and members of the NEC. We are totally grateful to President Buhari and the NEC members for this wisdom that brought the impasses to an end. In attendance during the swearing-in are the governors of Osun State, Isiaka Oyetola, Niger, Sani Bello, Sen. Ken Nnamani, Stella Okorete -Women representative, James Lalu – physically challenged, Abubakar Yusuf- Senate representative, Akinyemi Olaide – House of Representatives, David Lyon, Abba Ari, Tahir Mamman, Ismail Ahmed – Youth and Akpan Udoedehe, as the Secretary.