he Federal Government is proposing a review of the oil 
benchmark for the 2020 budget from an initial $57 to $30 per barrel due 
to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and the plunge in 
international oil prices on the nation’s economy. In
 a meeting with the leadership of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 
Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, explained that prior to the COVID-19 
and oil price decline, the Nigerian economy was already fragile and 
vulnerable. She added that the impact of the pandemic put 
increasing pressure on the Naira and foreign reserves as the crude oil 
sales receipts declined and the country’s micro-economic outlook 
worsened. Ahmed disclosed that the Federal Government has  undertaken cuts to revenue-related expenditures for the Nigerian  National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for several projects included in  the 2020 Appropriation Act passed by the National Assembly in December,  2019. “Prior to COVID-19 and Oil price decline, the Nigerian economy was already fragile and vulnerable.” She
 also told the leadership of the National Assembly that budgeted 
revenues for the Nigeria Customs Service have been reduced from N1.5 
trillion to N943 billion “due to anticipated reduction in trade volumes;
 and privatization proceeds to be cut by 50 per cent, based on the 
adverse economic outlook on sales of the Independent Power Projects 
(IPPs) and other assets.” Similarly, Ahmed disclosed that the 
Federal Government has undertaken cuts to Revenue-related expenditures 
for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for several 
projects included in the 2020 Appropriation Act passed by the National 
Assembly in December, 2019. “The Federal Government is working on 
Fiscal Stimulus Measures to provide fiscal relief for Taxpayers and key 
economic sectors; incentivize employers to retain and recruit staff 
during the economic downturn; stimulate investment in critical 
infrastructure; review non-essential tax waivers to optimize revenues, 
and compliment monetary and trade interventions to respond to the 
crisis,” the Finance Minister disclosed. Meanwhile, President of 
the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said that an immediate review of the 2020 
budget and Medium Term Expenditure Framework is imperative, particularly
 against the backdrop of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the 
global economy. “If we have to review the budget itself, we have 
to consider the MTEF/FSP. Even in sickness, we need the government to 
provide services. The impact of COVID-19 is well known to all of us in 
terms of health and the economy. Here, we will be talking of revenues 
that we estimated to fund the budget 2020. Because the oil price has 
gone so low due to the impact of COVID-19, the Minister of State should 
be able to tell us where we will be in the next six months or so. “We
 should have concepts that can deliver fast and are sustainable. 
Anything that we do that cannot provide succor and relief to our people 
will lead to catastrophe,” the Senate President warned.