Patrick Okohue The Abia state chapter of the All Progressives Grand Alliance(APGA), has insisted that it would head to court should Governor Okezie Ikpeazu-led government fail to replace the newly appointed Chairman of Abia State Independent Electoral Commission(ABSIEC), Professor Mkpa Agu Mkpa.  The opposition party maintained that Agu Mkpa is a card carrying member of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), declaring that the Professor is unfit to preside over the activities of the Abia State Independent Electoral Commission(ABSIEC). German minister faults Trump’s resolve to close borders unilaterally It will be recalled that the Abia State House of Assembly had on Tuesday, screened and confirmed the nomination of Prof Mkpa Agu Mkpa as Chairman, Abia State Independent Electoral Commission (ABSIEC) as appointed by Governor Ikpeazu. The screening which took place in the executive session of the Assembly was presided over by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Chinedum Orji. However, in a press release signed by its Abia Chairman, Hon. Nkem Okoro on Thursday, APGA alleged that Agu Mkpa openly campaigned for Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and the PDP in the last 2019 governorship election, adding that the new chairman would be biased in the conduct of Local Government Area Council election in the state. According to the statement, “For the avoidance of doubt, our position has nothing to do with Professor Mkpa’s personality, competence, qualification or place of origin, but on the basis of his conspicuous partisanship and unbidden alliance and loyalty to the PDP. “It’s a globally forbidden practice in a democracy for an individual whose loyalty lies with a particular political party to head an electoral body which is supposed to be independent, as that would take away the principle of fairness which guides the conduct of an election. “We would want Prof. Mkpa to show bravery, character and honour by accepting this undisputed fact, rather than trying in futility to deny it in what appears like a desperation to occupy the position of ABSIEC Chairman. As an academic, we expect the highest level of integrity from him. “We have had a former Vice Chancellor of ABSU, Professor S. O. Emejuiwe as ABSIEC Chairman, no one raised an eyebrow over his appointment, because he was not perceived as partisan. We also had Retired Justice Akomas who is the immediate past ABSIEC Chairman. “In spite of the flaws that marred the election he conducted, nobody called for his removal, because he wasn’t seen to be partisan, prior to his appointment, even though he was loyal to Ikpeazu while his tenure lasted. “It is also important to remind members of Abia State House of Assembly who have hurriedly confirmed the appointment in spite of widespread opposition, that Abians are taking note of their “stewardship” and connivance that seek to misrepresent their constituents at a time when their robust, and independent legislative engagements should have been impacting positively on the state.” Meanwhile, reacting to the APGA claims, the new Chairman of Abia State Independent National Electoral Commission (ABSIEC), Professor Mkpa Agu Mkpa, denied allegations that he is a card carrying member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Mkpa spoke to newsmen shortly after his screening in the Executive session of the Abia State House of Assembly, challenging those peddling the allegation to come forward with evidence of his membership of any party.