Eighteen members of two rival cult groups whose constant violence in Ogudu and Ojota area resulted in the killing of eight people, have been arrested by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad of the Lagos State Police Command. The suspects, comprising 12 members of Aiye Confraternity and six members of Eiye confraternity were picked up by the Decoy Team of the RRS in their hideouts in parts of Lagos and Akwa Ibom State, were today paraded by Lagos State Commissioner of Police. Navy seizes 316 drums of diesel from smugglers in A/Ibom The gangs, whose violent activities dated back to January, 2019, when an Aiye cult leader, Solomon Cosmos popular known as ‘Solomon Terror’, the elder brother of Ikenna Cosmos, was violently killed by some Eiye gang in Ogudu, Ojota in the presence of his son. Ikenna Cosmos had in commemorating the killing of his brother in January 9, 2020 concluded arrangements to unleash violence on the perceived killers of his brother but Ogudu division of the Police State Command, thwarted the ploy after it got wind of the planned violence. But, in a new twist, the gangs commenced another violence in January which claimed the lives of the following seven people: Sule a.k.a Minister, Pamilerin and his friend, Olaolu Abiodun, Daniel, Babatunde Adebayo and Dauda Akinode all in the month of January 2020. The Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu had in bringing the constant violence to an end directed the Decoy Team of Rapid Response Squad to arrest all the suspects. Arrested by the police were 12 Aiye members: Ikenna Cosmos, 25, Olamilekan Saheed, 22, Olaide Ogungbile (a.k.a Street Boy), 18, Yekini Abiodun (a.k.a Shaba), 24, David Atanda (a.k.a Osiki), 27, John Abodunde (a.k.a Badoo), 25, Fasola Opeyemi, 20, Adeniyi Aladegbami, 36, Kolawole Ayotunde (a.k.a AY), 31,  Korede Joyi (a.k.a Dasilva), 21,  Omobolaji Ogunniyi (a.k.a BJ), 23,  and Obu Onyekachukwu, 34.Also arrested were six Eiye members and one Bucaneer member. They are; Alade Samuel, 23, Ahmed Saka, 24, Nurudeen Babatunde, 24, Odumade Damilola, 23, Rafiu Olamilekan, 22, Rilwan Onibudo, 19, and Bamidele Suleiman, 25,  of Bucaneer confraternity. Some of the suspects were with bullet wounds on their bodies.Parading the suspects on Thursday,  the Commissioner of Police reiterated the preparedness of the Command to nip in the bud the violence of all kind in the state particularly that resulting from cult groups.Nineteen suspects arrested for gang violence and murder at Ogudu. Odumosu said: “ Following incidents of violent cults and gang clashes in Ogudu area by some notorious cultists in a battle for supremacy that left two persons dead and few others injured, the Command’s Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants and other tactical units were deployed to Ogudu to restore sanity to the area. “ Nineteen suspects were arrested on February 2, 2020. The suspects will be charged to court. ”