US health officials 
conducted tests aboard a cruise ship off the coast of San Francisco 
Thursday to determine if any of its nearly 3,500 passengers and crew 
have contracted the new coronavirus. Some of the stranded  passengers on board the Grand Princess who have shown flu-like symptoms  were being tested after one 71-year-old man who had been on board the  ship on a previous voyage died from the virus. Borno Assembly restates commitment to security, welfare of corps members The ship had been due to dock in San Francisco on Wednesday but was prevented from doing so. Officials
 said there were 2,383 passengers and 1,100 crew on the ship, which cut 
short its voyage back from Hawaii after passengers and crew members 
developed symptoms. “At this time, the Centers for Disease Control
 and Prevention (CDC), the California State Health Department and the 
governor’s Office of Emergency Services, with the US Coast Guard are 
working to determine if COVID-19 is present on the ship,” Mary Ellen 
Carroll, the head of the San Francisco Department of Emergency 
Management, told reporters. She said 35 people had shown flu-like symptoms during the 15-day cruise, with many having already recovered. “Testing
 protocols are being put into place on the ship for those passengers and
 crew that have shown flu-like symptoms or may have been exposed to the 
virus, and that is happening today,” she added. Carroll said once 
test results are back, the CDC and California state officials will 
determine the most appropriate location for the ship to berth. “The
 location needs to provide for the safety of the surrounding community, 
as well as the passengers and crew,” she said. “The CDC and the state 
are considering a number of locations including San Francisco.” On
 Wednesday, California Governor Gavin Newsom said 11 passengers and 10 
crew members were potentially infected with the virus that emerged in 
China late last year and has spread worldwide, killing more than 3,000 
people. Some 62 guests who remained on board from the ship’s 
earlier Mexico voyage were being restricted to their cabins for testing,
 the Princess Cruises company said in a statement to AFP on Wednesday. “In
 an abundance of caution, these guests and other potential close crew 
contacts have been asked to remain in their staterooms until screened by
 our onboard medical team,” it said. The Grand Princess belongs to
 Princess Cruises, the same company which operated the Diamond Princess 
— the coronavirus-stricken ship held off Japan last month from which 
more than 700 people tested positive and six died.