There are reports that President Muhammadu Buhari has reportedly sacked Dr Dakuku Peterside,as the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). Buhari was said to have also approved the appointment of the NIMASA’s Executive Director, Administration and Finance, Bashir Jamoh, as the new DG, according to The Sun. Peterside, who was appointed by the Buhari administration in 2016, is expected to end his tenure on March 10, 2020. Democrats bank on Biden as the man to beat Trump NIMASA on Wednesday explained why its Director-General, Dr Peterside, could not personally appear before a National Assembly (NASS) Joint Committee in Abuja on Tuesday. The Head,  Public Relations, NIMASA, Mr Isichei Osamgbi, gave the reason in a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos. Peterside had been invited to appear before the NASS joint committee investigating activities of foreign vessel owners in the country. However, a member of the executive management, the Executive Director,  Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services, Mr Gambo Ahmed,  led a team to represent the agency. The absence of Peterside irked the joint committee members, who threatened to sanction him over his failure to appear before them. Explaining Peteside’s absence in the statement, Osamgbi said the director-general was in Lagos, leading other management staff of the agency to receive members of the House Committee on Maritime Safety Education and Administration who were on oversight visit. “This was the reason the DG could not personally be in Abuja to honor the invitation by the NASS joint committee investigating activities of foreign vessel owners in the country. “It is noteworthy that due to the clash of both schedules, NIMASA management communicated same to the national assembly joint committee,  requesting for a change of date. ” However, a member of the executive management, the Executive Director,  Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services, Mr Gambo Ahmed,  led the high powered team to represent the agency,” he said. According to Osamgbi, NIMASA management respects the national  assembly and would always respond to invitations from them. The newly appointed DG is currently the executive director for admin and finance at NIMASA. Jamoh, who hails from Kaduna, is also the current president of the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIoTA). The 56-year-old holds a PhD from the University of Port Harcourt, specialising in logistics and transport management. He also holds a master’s degree in management from Korea Maritime and Ocean University, a post-graduate diploma in management sciences from Bayero University, Kano and a diploma in accounting from Ahmadu Bello University Zaria. TheCable also understands that he has 32 years of professional experience in the transportation and maritime sector. He is also the author of the book, Harnessing Nigeria’s Maritime Assets: Past, Present and Future. Jamoh joined NIMASA in 2003 as an assistant chief commercial officer, eastern and central zones. He served with the Kaduna state government before transferring his services to the then National Maritime Authority (NMA) in 1994. 