The Christian Association of Nigeria CAN has said that they thank God that no lives was lost in the early morning explosion  caused by  a truck laden with dynamites being transported to Edo from Lagos State  which developed a fault and exploded around 1am. at Ilu Abo on the Akure-Owo express way. CAN also said that the explosion was at Ilu Abo was a  national disaster because the volume of destruction   was beyond what one can see and imagine. The Ondo state can chairman, Revd John Ayoola,  speaking to pressmen said that: “This is beyond description. I’m speechless. This is a national disaster because the volume of destruction we have seen here is beyond what one can see and imagine. The entire structure and compound is littered and shattered. “When I saw the text this morning, I quickly went to the hospital to see one or two persons that were injured. Though their condition is stable now but getting here, I know this must have been divine for them to be in that state looking at the massive destruction we have seen here. “Almost all the structures and buildings were destroyed in one way or the order beyond repairs. Explosion rocks Akure “We have to thank God that no life was lost but the government should come out very soon to let us know what happened looking at how and who are involved in the vehicle because all the information we have now is still skeletal, we are yet to get the exact picture of what really happened.” Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State speaking at the site of  explosion on Saturday  urged residents to steer clear of Saturday’s explosion site at Ilu Abo on the Akure-Owo express way. The governor said the destruction caused by the explosion could only be imagined, advising residents to allow the bomb squad to do its job. “I have had thorough briefing from head of our security agencies and the preliminary reports received was that it was an accidental discharge of explosives that was in transit through Ondo state to another state where it was needed. “We will advise all citizens, all residents of Ondo State, not to come near this place at all, they should vacate and move out of this premises. “As we are told, the vehicle that was carrying this explosives is buried in the crater it created, so we never know what number of explosives are left. “Let everybody give the police, the bomb squad, space to do their work and we will know what to do,” he said. He urged residents not to forget that the coronavirus was still raging, urging residents to avoid crowded areas. “Right here where we are standing, we are not safe, tell the people to move back and allow police to bring out the vehicle that is buried there,” he said. No casualty had been reported as at the time of filing this report.