Though the alarm raised by President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on the danger posed to the well-being of Nigeria by the increasing number of out-of-school children may not be new, his concern and that of other senators show that it is time for all hands to be on deck to eliminate the syndrome once and for all. Lawan, it would be recalled, in his concluding remarks on a motion on “the need to integrate almajiri education into modern system of education in Nigeria, on Tuesday, March 10, 2020, said that should the nation fail to curb the increase in the number of about 14 million out -of -school children, the current security challenges being experienced by the country may be aggravated. DSS probes personnel over Kebbi presidential episode Noting that
the increasing number of out-of-school children is a big challenge facing the
nation, Lawan said: “We all know that the out-of-school-children are at the
moment a big problem to us as a country. They constitute not only social
problems, but also security problems to some extent. “Therefore,
it is our responsibility to do whatever we can to ensure that they are enrolled
in primary and secondary schools”. Before
Lawan’s alarm, not a few Nigerians had voiced concern on the danger the increasing
number of out-of-school children pose to the socio-economic well-being of
the country and called for urgent actions to tackle the malady. While we
acknowledge that the Federal Government has a role to play in stemming the
upsurge in the number of out-of-school children in the country, particularly in
putting in place right policies and adequate funding of the Universal Basic
Education Commission and other agencies looking after basic education sector, we
are of the opinion that states have greater responsibility in ensuring that
children roaming streets in their jurisdictions are in school with their
peers. This is because the 1999 Constitution (as amended) confers on states the
power to oversee primary and secondary education. States must therefore not abdicate
this responsibility. The Federal Government can at best provide funding and
policies to boost interventions in the sector by state governments. We commend
steps taken so far by some state governments particularly in the north where
the number of out-of-school children keeps increasing. In particular, we
applaud efforts of the Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, who recently
threatened to jail parents of out-of-school children. “Every
parent that doesn’t send his child to school will go to jail because he
destroys the future of his child without any reason. “Every child
under the age of five is entitled to free medical care for every kind of
illness in our public health facility; antenatal care is also free for pregnant
women,” the governor said at the opening of a public hearing on the state’s
social protection policy document in Kaduna on March 11, 2020. We also note
that the Kano State Governor, Umar Ganduje, recently banned street begging and
launched the Basic Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), a policy which
penalises parents or guardians of children caught begging on the streets. We appeal to
other governors across the country to emulate the tough stance of the Kaduna
State governor and his Kano State counterpart so that once and for all this
scourge can be brought to a halt. We are of
the view that now is the time for our political and religious leaders
especially in the north to unite to eliminate the practice of allowing children
room the streets when they should be in school. We must tear down all barriers,
be they religious and cultural that encourage children to beg for arms or be
engaged in other activities not geared towards their education.