The federal government has unveiled the National Fertilizer Quality
Control Act to regulate the production of fertilizers in Nigeria that provides
a five-year jail term for offenders of the Act. According to the Act, fertilizer producers that operate without permit
or certificate of registration will pay a fine of N5 million. This was disclosed on Tuesday during the public presentation and
unveiling of the Act in Abuja, by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural
Development, Sabo Nanono. Unveiling the Fertilizer Act, the minister said the Act will regulate
the manufacture, importation and sales/distribution as well as quality control
of fertilizers in Nigeria. Section 18 of the Act states that ‘’a person who manufactures, blends,
imports or distributes fertilizer that is deficient in plant nutrient,
unbranded, adulterated and underweight is liable on conviction, to a term of
imprisonment of at least five years without option of fine.’’ Nanono said the Act would provide the enabling environment for
fertilizer enterprises to grow, protect farmers against access to
nutrient-deficient and adulterated fertilizers as well as short-weight bags of
fertilizers. ‘’The purpose is also to protect our natural environment from harmful elements in fertilizers such as heavy metals which can be harmful to both soils and the humans,” he added. Nigeria will honour agreement with neighbours on border re-opening In order to ensure compliance with the law, the minister highlighted
that the ministry will not condole any obstruction, hindrance or prevention of
a duly authorized officer of the prescribed authority from carrying out his/her
duties and responsibilities assigned to him/her under the Act or regulations
made pursuant to the Act. Nanono also noted that the ministry has deployed and re-trained more
fertilizer quality control inspectors to add to the already trained 150
officers to ensure proper monitoring and enforcement of the Act. He appreciated the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari and other
stakeholders for the support and roles they played toward ensuring the
actualization of the law. The minister challenged fertilizer industry players to put in place
proper mechanism for self-regulation, adding that the implementing regulations
will soon be ready for ease of administration of the Act.