As the
Supreme Court today looks into an appeal by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
that it should review its January 14 judgement in the Imo state governorship
election petition, the party has expressed confidence that its legal team will
not be found wanting or be sanctioned by the court because the request of the
party was not frivolous. The party said it entertains no fear that the apex court may throw out its petition and sanction its lawyers as it did to counsels to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate in the request for a review of the court’s verdict in the Bayelsa state governorship petition. Five Serie A games off as coronavirus brings chaos to Italian sport The PDP
argued that it presented before the court a different case from that of the APC
and its candidate, stating that it wants to prove to the justices of the apex
court that they were mislead by the APC in delivering their judgement. Party
spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan at a press briefing in Abuja on Sunday,
insisted that the Supreme Court was misled into taking the decision and that
there is room for the court to review and possibly reverse itself based on
evidence on ground. He said that
“we hold firmly that there will be no sanctions against our lawyers.
Because the reason we went to the Supreme Court is to state clearly that they
were misled by the All Progressive Congress (APC) into their judgement. “We
are at the Supreme Court to state clearly that the result of votes the court
declared for the APC is even more and larger than the total number of
registered voters. And that the highest court in the land was misled into
taking that decision. As such, even to the Supreme Court it will be totally
unacceptable that they were misled into taking the decision. “So,
we are not confronting the Supreme Court as a political party, No. The PDP and
our candidate, Emeka Ihedioha, who has had the opportunity of leading the House
of Representatives that has constitutional responsibility to make laws, will
not go that way. And our party that nurtured democracy for over 20 years will
not confront the Supreme Court. “We
are not confronting the Supreme Court; we are presenting our case before the
justices of the court for them to understand that they were misled into taking
a decision by political tricksters. And as such I do not see the Supreme Court
acting against the PDP”. The party
blamed the rumour of being jittery over the case before the court on the
capacity of the APC for political and judicial manipulations. Meanwhile,
the party has rejected the judgment of Kogi state High Court on the governorship
primary of PDP which voided its validly conducted governorship primary. It
described the judgment as a classical example of judicial rascality and
scandalous travesty of justice which cannot stand, and for which the party will
stop at nothing by exploring all legal avenues to immediately set it aside at
the appellate court. The PDP
held that the judgment has heavily detracted from the integrity of the
Kogi state High Court and has threatened the reputation of the judiciary if not
immediately quashed.