As part of efforts at promoting traditional food culture in Nigeria, Stallion Group company, Popular Farms and Mills Limited sponsored the first ever indigenous rice cooking competition organized by the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, RIFAN Kano State chapter. The indigenous rice cooking competition targeted young chefs between 12-15 years from different local Government areas of Kano and Jigawa states. Breaking: FG imposes travel ban on UK, US, others from Saturday over Covid19 The event which was held recently was aimed at inculcating the hygienic and traditional cooking habits amongst the youth aged 12- 15 years, especially at a time when the federal government is promoting domestic consumption. The Chairman RIFAN Kano state chapter, Abubakar Aliyu in his address, described the cooking competition as a welcome development and stressed the importance of indigenous rice production, especially at a time when the border drill by the federal government is ongoing. He stated that “Nigeria must eat what she produces and stop her dependence on imported rice”. The competition saw more than 100 young enthusiasts competing for the coveted prizes, as it unleashed the creativity in Nigerian cooking as rice remains an integral product consumed on a daily basis by millions of Nigerians. Highlight of the event was the presentation of prices to deserving chefs at a gala event in Kano. Aisha Mansur of First Grade International School won the cooking competition and was awarded a cash prize of N150, 000 while Rukayya Awaisu of Maitama Sule College came second and was awarded N70, 000, just as Amina Kabir Muhammed of Kuntau Girls College camethird and was awarded N50,000 cash. RIFAN chairman commended Popular Farms and Mills Ltd. for the cash awards and gifts to the winners and for providing rice for the cook off. The company’s Managing Director,  Mr. Amit Rai represented by regional senior team was presented the ‘Outstanding Rice Investor Award’ by the deputy governor of Kano state, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna for integration of the rice value chain and its effective farmer outreach Programme. A total of 16 awardees were recognized for their support to indigenous rice production and consumption in Nigeria, particularly in Kano State.Rice Brands from Stallion today have been identified as leading consumer brands in the country. Popular Farms and Mills Limited, a Stallion Group Company is leading the Nigerian Rice revolution by locally producing farm fresh paddy that is sortexed and milled at state of the art fully automated rice mill at Kano with an annual installed capacity of 150,000 MT. Recently KPMG valued two of the top Stallion Group rice brands Royal Stallion at N66.1 billion and Caprice at N 41.5 08 bn, putting together a consolidated valuation of N 107.6 bn establishing leadership in the formal retail market.Some of the other popular brands from the company are Tomato King, Double Bull, People’s Princess and Super Champion.