Since the entry and eventual spread of Coronavirus, otherwise called COVID-19, into Nigeria, the Federal and state governments have risen to the challenge, putting in place various measures to checkmate the pandemic. These measures, restrictive as some are, have been embraced
by a greater percentage of Nigerians in places like Lagos, Ogun, FCT and others
with confirmed cases of infected persons. Other states that are yet to record
any confirmed case of the virus are also not folding their hands as they have
set in motion measures to track the virus should it show up in their jurisdictions. These
 measures, in our opinion, are commendable and should be sustained so 
that the number of infected persons in the country and deaths
arising therefrom remain low at the end of day. However, one fact that the Coronavirus (COVID-19) entry and
spread in Nigeria has brought to the fore is the urgent need for federal and
state governments to revamp Health institutions under their purview so that
these institutions are in a position to attend to health needs of Nigerians at
all times and at affordable cost. This is because over the years, not a few Nigerians had
drawn attention to the near collapse of the nation’s Health sector,
particularly the decayed infrastructure in public hospitals, obsolete equipment,
inadequate manpower, non-availability of essential medicaments as well as the
unconducive environment workers in the sector are subjected to leading to the
migration of a good number of doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel to
other countries for greener pasture. The presence of COVID-19, in our opinion, therefore, offers
our public officials at both federal and state levels an opportunity to reverse
these. It offers an opportunity for them to take another look at the parlous
state of most public hospitals in their jurisdictions with the aim of revamping
not only the facilities and equipment but also addressing the concerns of
health workers. It provides an opportunity for our political office holders to
stop paying lips service to the Health sector. We insist that now is the time for public officials to end
all talks of being concerned about the state of public health facilities but to
take action(s). With COVID-19 in Nigeria, we believe it is time for federal
and state governments to quickly put all public hospitals in good condition by
providing adequate funding, ensuring that facilities are up-to-date as well as
providing good environment and welfare for Health workers. In our view, Governments at all levels in the country should
use the presence of Coronavirus as an opportunity to make greater investments
in the Health sector. Governments should from now stop paying lips service to issues
affecting the Health sector. Health, as it is often said, is wealth and this should
be the priority of all tiers of government in Nigeria going forward.