“Eagle Wings’, a Nollywood action film that chronicles the Nigerian Airforce (NAF) gallant fight against insurgency in defence of our fatherland is currently being shot at several locations across Nigeria. Paul Apel-Papel, script writer and director of the film, disclosed this to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja. According to him, the film is produced by Papel Image Tech with support of the NAF as part of efforts to showcase activities of the military through the motion picture. Apel-Papel explained that the film explores the often tragic, yet gallant fight for life, peace and national unity by the military. He noted that being a military film, the Air Force supplied the equipment and logistics required during the shooting taking place in Kaduna, Borno, Abuja and other places. READ ALSO: Fani Kayode, Dino Melaye debut Nollywood movie “The ultimate goal of this movie is to show to Nigerians the efforts of this service in nation building and for us also to know what they go through and the sacrifices they make. “The officers themselves, the soldiers and their families and friends and that is basically what the story is about. “The plot is about three brilliant course mates who are also best friends and are faced with a challenge in the course of doing their work, and ended up rescuing a whole community. “We want Nigerians to appreciate the Airforce and the Military in general for the efforts, the sacrifice they make out there to keep our nation together. “We want the people to see reasons why they are out there day and night in defence of our country,” he said. Apel-Papel explained that the cast of the acclaimed film included both young and seasoned Nollywood stars, including Femi Jacob, Yakubu Mohammed, Kepi Ekpeyong, Funky Mallam and Eyinna Nwigwe. The script writer and producer said that the film was scheduled for premiere and then cinemas debute within the year. He noted that the collaboration would bring about exponential growth in the nation’s motion picture industry through production of rich and more appealing story lines. “We put all these resources together to first of all tell a story that will draw the kind of emotions we expect and drive home the kind of message we want to reach Nigerians and beyond. “First of all, I wanted to tell a story that people can connect with and I am going all out putting so much of my time and resources to get the best. “It is a film that can go to the Oscars without arguing because the quality and the sound are there.”