Women have been urged to continue to break stereotypes
that impede their progress in the socio-political set up of the country in a
bid to make a meaningful impact. The Acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Ms. Mary Uduk who stated this during the commemoration of the 2020 International Women’s Day in Abuja, Monday, said this is given the continuing need for more progressive thinking and inclusive behaviours globally. Senate President wants Nigeria’s education curricula reviewed She
said, “Women must be ready to challenge stereotypes. We must remove barriers
that stand in the way of the progress of women and consciously take giant
strides towards the emancipation of women. “When
we stand together, we can achieve anything and any obstacle can be pulled down.
We must support women for emerging opportunities whenever they arise and mentor
them. Supporting one another is a duty we owe and must carry out every time for
women to move on.” Uduk
enjoined all whether women or men, sisters or brothers to consciously take
giant strides towards the emancipation of women in all spheres of life as the
rise of a woman is never the fall of men. According
to her “Those of us who are older women should consciously look down and mentor
our sisters, our upcoming sisters, our children so that as they grow up, we are
not in competition with each other, it is always our happiness to see that
those that we mentor surpass us, they do better than us, just like we like our
children to do better than us. “Therefore,
I charge all of us in this room, to please look down at all times and pull up
your younger sisters, your children and bring them up to speed in the way you
would like your own children to be. “If you
are not a woman, you have a daughter, or married or a girl child, therefore it
is for everyone. It then provides an opportunity for us to reinforce the fact
that everyone, both women and men have a role to play in building and
sustaining a more gender-balanced world. Uduk
said International women’s day is for celebrating the achievements of women and
on calling for gender parity, as historically the role of Nigerian women has
differed depending on religious and geographic factors. She
said, “Women’s role was primarily understood as mothers, sisters, daughters and
wives. These have gradually changed through the ages with the
presence of women in almost every sector in Nigeria. Our women can be found in
Medicine, Law, Engineering, Architecture, Building, Technology, Accounting,
Teaching, International Relations, Aero-nautical Engineering and in Capital
Market-related professions. “Regarding
gender bias there is much improvement in how women are perceived and treated in
Nigeria these days. However, there is still much work to be done, women are
still being marginalized in politics, discriminated against sexually harassed
in the workplace. These days it has become evident that there is no such thing
as bottom power. What you have are very hard-working women that God has raised
and they do well and everybody knows that it is not because of any man’s
influence but because they do that in their own right as hard-working women. In her
remarks, Leadership and Management Consultant Dr Karmell Andzenge said as the
world celebrates the woman, the men are also celebrating themselves as without
the men the women cannot be and vice versa. Andzenge
said equality is a respecting point where the women respect the men and the men
also, respect the women and therefore urged men to support women beginning from
the homes. She,
however, lamented that women are still not treated equally in some instances
adding that some cultural and harmful traditional practices have to be done
away with. The
International Women’s Day is celebrated around the world on March 08 and
 the day is focused on celebrating the social, economic, cultural and 
political
achievements of women and for highlighting challenges that women face in
 the different phase of life and we all know that, women face a lot of 
issues in
life. This year’s celebration marks a call to action for celebrating 
women’s
equality.