President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated the administration’s commitment to bequeath the nation a police force that is citizens’ centered and rule of law guided. The president gave the assurance while declaring open the 12th biennial police games in Awka at the weekend. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammed Dingyadi, also said the security of citizens remains one of the cardinal points of his administration in the Next Level agenda. “It is for this reason we are prioritising the police institution with a view to ensuring optimal performance. The approval for the adoption of community policing was an internal security measure to police the country. “This also informed my assenting to the Police Trust Fund Bill which is poised to fundamentally alter the funding gap which has been hampering the smooth operation of the police over the years,” he said. He said the approval for the yearly recruitment of 10,000 personnel as well as plans to address the pension regime challenges in the police were part of the efforts to strengthen the institution. The President commended the police led by the Inspector-General, Mohammed Adamu for providing strategic leadership which has manifested in the successes recorded in crime fighting and also commended other police officers for their sacrifices in securing lives in different parts of the country. He assured police personnel that the federal government has also approved more funding, remuneration and reviewed their welfare to motivate them. Buhari, who expressed worry that the country is faced with internal security challenges, urged police officers and men to be more dedicated to serving the nation. Speaking, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu said the games would help provide opportunity for policemen and women to help in nation building and help discover sporting talents. READ ALSO: Alake calls for healthy rivalry among ethnic groups Adamu, who noted that the Nigeria Police Games is the largest gathering of police sportsmen and women in the country, expressed hope that the gains made from it would enhance the performance of officers. In his address, Gov. Wilie Obiano of Anambra state commended the police for bringing the games to the state and expressed confidence that the games would boost the local economy and at least fetch the state over N1.5 billion in income from small businesses. The governor listed the numerous efforts made by the state government including purchase of vehicles for the police and other security equipment to make the state, the safest in the country.