The Lagos state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, has decried reports making the rounds in some quarters that the state is on lockdown. In a statement issued on
Wednesday, the commissioner said contrary to what is being reported in sections
of the media, especially in relation to the briefing by Governor Sanwo-Olu on
Tuesday regarding the closure of markets for seven days and other stringent
measures to curtail the spread of COVID-19, Lagosians and other essential
services can still go about their normal businesses. “The attention of the
Lagos state government has been drawn to news reports that Lagos is on lockdown
following Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s update on the steps taken to curtail the
spread of the coronavirus. “The impression created
by such reports is erroneous; Lagos is not on lockdown despite the stringent
measures introduced by the government. Mr. Governor, who is the incident commander,
only urged private sector establishments to introduce measures that will support
the government’s efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19. “Gov. Sanwo-Olu
suggested that banks should enhance their online banking services to enable
their customers have transactions without visiting banking halls. All markets
that are not selling food, pharmaceutical products, water, medical equipment
and other essential materials are to close down. “Workers providing
essential services, like the fire service, emergency, health, water,
telecommunication, security, media and others are exempted from this
directive. “The initiatives being introduced by the
government are to prevent any situation where more than 25 persons will gather
in the same place at any time.” He stressed that the
Sanwo-Olu administration is concerned about the rising number of COVID-19 cases
hence it is adopting measures to keep residents safe. The commissioner added that the
government will continue to appraise the situation, consult various
stakeholders and make further announcements to check the spread of this lethal
disease. “Residents should
observe simple hygienic measures, such as washing hands with soap and water,
covering mouth while sneezing or coughing and consulting a doctor when feeling
ill. Anyone feeling unwell should stay indoors. “We should remain
observant, prayerful and report all suspected cases of COVID-19 through the
emergency hotlines – 08000CORONA, 08023169485, 08033535529, 08052817243,”
he said.