The Lagos State
Government has appointed FBNQuest Merchant Bank to act as joint financial
advisers to refinance the state’s existing debt and raise additional debt for a
combined amount of up to N150 billion The state government has explained that the funds are targeted at improving infrastructure in the state and bridge deficits. Senate considers CAMA Amendment bill Tuesday This is to cut
across transportation, housing, education, health and environmental sectors. FBNQuest, the
investment banking and asset management subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc said in
a statement that the transaction was significant as it marked the first time
the Lagos State Government would be refinancing and raising debt from
commercial banks on a club deal basis with common terms across all
participating banks. The transaction
was one part in a series which has resulted in the state government raising up
to N250b billion from Nigerian commercial banks and the capital market. It further stated
that the transaction aimed to achieve three main objectives which are to raise
funds for Lagos State to carry out and complete a number of infrastructures
projects within the state; extend the tenor for some existing facilities; and
standardise the cost of financing at more competitive rates across all the
existing loan facilities. The statement
partly read, “Funds raised from the transaction are to be directly applied to
some of the significant infrastructure projects currently being carried out in
the state in support of the state’s infrastructure agenda. “Upon
completion, the projects are expected to be transformational in nature,
resulting in improved quality of life in the city.” Speaking on the transaction, Patrick Mgbenwelu, head of investment banking at FBNQuest Merchant
Bank Limited said, “We are pleased to have partnered the Lagos State Government
on this important transaction, which will contribute significantly to the
infrastructure development goals of Lagos State. “The transaction
closed in record time, given the unique approach adopted. We look forward to
working on other key projects that will support the strategic objectives of the
state. “FBNQuest
Merchant Bank received the EMEA Finance African Banking Award for the Best
Local Investment Bank in Nigeria, and was recognised at the FMDQ Gold Awards as
the Most Innovative Registration Member in 2019. These awards were in view of
its leading role in key transactions across various sectors, as well as the
continuous delivery of increased value through the registration of bond-related
transactions at the FMDQ Securities Exchange.”