Most filling stations in Jos and environs are yet to adjust to the new price regime of N125 per litre for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS). READ ALSO: Pump price: Minister tasks commercial drivers to slash cost of transport fares The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Federal Government on Wednesday reduced the pump price for PMS from N145 to N125 per litre due to fall in price of crude oil across the globe.President Mohammadu Buhari had directed the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to work out an appropriate price in line with market realities. A NAN correspondent who went round reports that most of the filling stations in Jos remained adamant as they refused to comply with the new price regime. Mr James Ebute, the Manager of Al’olaba petrol station Anglo Jos, said that the decision to reduce the pump price by government  would affect marketers, adding that most stations had old stock that are yet unsold. He, however, promised to adjust to new pump price as soon as possible, so as not to be sanctioned by officials of the Department for Petroleum Resources (DPR). “The decision to review the pump price was done without giving us a chance to sell old stock. It’s going to affect our business“ As I speak, I have two and half trucks of the product on ground and I still have an outstanding truck to offload. But I shall soon comply with the directive,” he said. On his part, Mr Aaron John of Bok Investment Nig. Ltd, Sparkling junction, said his station still dispense the product at the old price, adding that he is waiting for orders from his Director to change to the current pump price.“I am just a manager here, I cannot do anything on my own. I am still waiting for the order from my Director to change the pump price,” he said.Mr Emmanuel Illiya of Total station, Dadin Kowa, also said he was waiting for directives from his superior to effect changes in the price. NAN, however, reports that the NNPC mega stations located at Secretariat Junction and the one at Zarmangada Junction, had since adjusted to the new price regime. The adjustment by the NNPC stations has atteacted motorists to patronise them, a situation leading to long queues at the stations.