…He is an inspirational political leader – Lawan …Tinubu, an icon of democrscy –  APC President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has joined other Nigerians to felicitate with the National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who turned 68 on Sunday, 29th March, 2020. Lawan said Asiwaju Tinubu, a former Senator and a two-term governor of Lagos State, is an inspirational political leader and champion of national unity and development. “All through his political life, Asiwaju Tinubu has doggedly groomed leaders, set development templates and built bridges for national integration and cohesion, all of which he sees as necessary tools for robust development and great nationhood. “Asiwaju Tinubu’s concept of leadership enables him to motivate associates and inspire in them confidence and loyalty. His imprints are indelible on politics and governance at the sub-national and national levels in Nigeria,” Lawan said. The Senate President rejoiced with him, his family, friends and political associates on the auspicious occasion. He prayed that the Almighty Allah grants him many more years of service to humanity and his beloved Nigeria. In the same vein, the All Progressives Congress (APC) said Tinubu is an outstanding politician and statesman, whose contributions to the enthronement and sustenance of democracy in the country have been phenomenal and acknowledged far and wide. According to the party, Tinubu has in the last 30 years dedicated his life to the tenets and ethos of progressive politics with unwavering commitment, focus and dedication. The APC felicitated with the politician in a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Lanre Issa – Onilu, in Abuja on Saturday. “As governor of Lagos State, Nigeria’s commercial nerve centre, Asiwaju Tinubu implemented policies and programmes that have not only endured till date, but being copied and replicated in many other states across the nation. “Fundamentally, he did not only lay the foundation for the transformation of Lagos, but also put in place an enduring blueprint for the progressive development of the state. “Under his guardianship, successive governors have been dutifully implementing the Asiwaju Blueprint which has seen Lagos, viewed previously as a densely populated slum, become a modern mega city,” the party said. Further extoling Tinubu’s virtues, APC said as an opposition leader, he exemplified a strong fidelity to responsible politics, taking on the retrogressive inclination of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government at the centre with gusto, superior ideas and principles through legal and constitutional channels. The party also noted with pride, Tinubu’s outstanding contributions to the APC and concept of “Common Sense Revolution”, which culminated in the overwhelming rejection of the PDP by majority of Nigerians at the 2015 general elections. “Furthermore, we salute his patriotism to the Nigerian cause, doggedness and tireless efforts to make our party a strong political unit that can deliver on its promises to the Nigerian people and overcome current and future challenges. “As Asiwaju Tinubu celebrates another year, we pray for more wisdom, sound health and long life in his service of our great party and country”, the party said.