The possibility of the
Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to return to Nigeria’s borders has
increased as the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Investment, Dolapo Badru reaffirmed the committee’s plans to
achieve the move. Badru, who revealed this during the oversight function of the committee in Lagos at the weekend stated that Nigeria has been overwhelmed by fake products being dumped on her. France hits Apple with €1.1bn fine “We have standards, but
the enforcement should be at the point of entry which is the ports and the land
borders. There is existing law and I wonder why the law is not complied with?
We will do everything within our powers to make sure that the SON gets back to
the borders, especially the seaports and the airports because we are so
overwhelmed in the country with fake and substandard products, especially those
products that take the lives of innocent Nigerians.” The lawmaker however
assured that the committee would get to the root of the matter, adding that the house will call for a hearing. He also hinted of plans to
invite the Director-General of the Agency, Mr Osita Aboloma as well as the
supervisory Ministry to come and explain to the house what is really happening
to the existing law which mandates SON to be at the port. “These fake things were
imported and nobody checks these goods when they come in because of the agency
that supposed to check for the quality of these goods have been evicted from
the ports. We are going to work with the ministry and the executive to make
sure SON gets back to the ports.” He urged SON to up the
ante on their sensitisation, adding that the public is the end-users and they
are also the victims of these substandard goods. In his response, SON DG,
Mr Osita Aboloma, said “You have seen our laboratories and our capacity to test
for conformity to standards. We have the capacity to create possibilities. We
have invested so much in human capacity development to be on par with our
counterparts all over the world. We appreciate your keen interest in sending us
back to the ports while also creating the enabling environment for effective
service delivery. If we are well-positioned we will do more. “The task to rid Nigeria
of substandard product is a responsibility for everybody. As members of the
committee on industry, you are by extension standards ambassadors. We implore
you to advocate our course wherever possible because we need to be positioned
to enable us to carry out our mandate effectively and safeguarding the lives of
Nigerians through standards.”