A frontline leader in the Lagos State chapter of the All
Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Adeyinka Adedoyin, has extolled the qualities
of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila,
describing him as a man of tremendous honour and real integrity’. Adedoyin spoke at a special event to honour Gbajabiamila for effective representation, commitment to public service and prudent management of resources, praised the Speaker for giving the House of Representatives the desired sense of purpose and direction. WHO to recruit 100 UN women volunteers in Africa According to him, “The Rt. Honourable Speaker is carrying
himself with grace and dignity,” he said. The APC leader spoke on the humility, simplicity,
purposefulness and intellectual depth of the representative of Surulere
Constituency 1 in the House of Representatives. Adedoyin who spoke when the Surulere Political Hall of Fame
inducted four new members at a ceremony in Lagos at the weekend  commended Gbajabiamila for celebrating the
milestone attained by his mother without playing to the gallery of drawing
undue attention to himself, the family and the National Assembly. “Mister Speaker celebrated the occasion in a low-key befitting
the mother’s humble nature.” He lashed out at some individuals he described as desperate and
their collaborators for formulating all kinds of lies and posting same to
various websites just to create wrong impressions. “We are aware that the agenda of these persons is to smear
the good name of Rt. Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila.” While cautioning those he said are making irresponsible and
unguarded comments about the Speaker, Adedoyin praised him for giving the
country good leadership, fighting resource wastage and taking Nigeria to the
next level. He also praised him for keeping in touch with the people who elected
him. Emphasising on the lawmaking, the politically correct
relationship with the executive and the brilliant committee appointments, he
commended the leadership of the House for being responsible and responsive to
the needs of all. “Nigerians expect APC to provide them with good employment,
good drinking water, affordable medical services, good schools for their
children and a decent living condition. They also want security for their lives
and property, true federalism, respect for fundamental human rights and the
rule of law. Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila is living up to expectations of
Nigerians,” Adedoyin said. He counseled those he described as charlatans masquerading
as media professionals to rise above pettiness and stop misleading the public
about the Speaker’s mother’s birthday. “It is clear that the motives of these individuals and their
masters are far from being genuine and altruistic.” He also advised the presiding officer of the House of
Representatives to remain calm in the face of unwarranted provocation. “The good people of Nigeria are solidly behind Rt. Hon Femi
Gbajabiamila, the wonderful people of Surulere Constituency 1 are very proud of
him, he has given good account of himself at the national level,” he added.