A 26-year-old Beninese, Jerome Ukena,  allegedly responsible for the kidnap of a United State based Nigerian Woman, Oluwatoyin Makinde, and her six-months-old daughter, have been arrested by operatives of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the Lagos State Police Command. The victims who had returned to the country on holiday, were attacked by Ukena and his gang at their Alogba Estate home, in Ikorodu in February. Police arrest 1,182 suspects in Lagos for kidnapping, murder, others The victims were whisked away by the kidnappers who called the family of the victims  demanding ransom in millions of naira. The husband of the victim, Ola Makinde Abidemi, had reported the matter to the Lagos commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, who immediately ordered the Anti-Kidnapping Unit, to rescue the victims and arrest the perpetrators of the criminal act. The directive paid off as the victims were rescued two days later, without ransom, and Ukena arrested in connection with the crime at the water way, Ilaje community, Bariga Makoko. According to Odumosu who gave an update on the matter, a three-year-old girl was recused at the kidnappers hideout in Ajegunle, Ikorodu. The State Police Boss who briefed journalists on the matter on Thursday, said: “ On February 23, 2020 at about 6:20 a.m., operatives of Anti-kidnapping Squad arrested one Jerome Ukena, 26, a native of Egun Cotonou, Republic of Benin. The suspect was arrested at the water way, Ilaje community, Bariga Makoko. “ He is arrested in connection with a case of kidnapping reported by one Ola Makinde Abidemi, of Alogba Estate zone D Ikorodu Lagos, whose wife Oluwatoyin Makinde, and their 6-month-old daughter were kidnapped in his residence on the February 16, 2020 and released two days later. “ The suspect led detectives to their hide out at Ajegunle of Ikorodu where a three year old baby was found and rescued. The phone used by the suspect to demand for ransom was recovered. The suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. Concerted effort is being made to arrest the fleeing members of the gang.