The House of Representatives on Tuesday in a move to end the two-week warning strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has invited the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu and his Labour counterpart, Chris Ngige and the leadership of ASUU for dialogue.  Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila announced this sequel to the unanimous adoption of a motion sponsored by Rep. Dachung Bagos (PDP/Plateau) at plenary. Moving the motion earlier, Rep. Bagos said that the ASUU had on March 9, after its national executive council meeting held in Enugu, embarked on a two-week warning strike. Bagos said that schools had just resumed and that the strike if allowed to take full effect would cost a lot of students extra academic year. “The continued yearly strike by ASUU is becoming a national embarrassment to the country. It is worrisome that the continued strike has encouraged education tourism of Nigerians to other countries,” he said. Rep. Kwewum Shawulu said that Nigerians spend over £300 million to study in the United Kingdom and over N5 billion as school fees in Ghana. He said that parents were sending their children to study in countries where Nigeria did not have comparative advantage, adding that more than one million children applly for admission to universities in the country annually. Rep. Shawulu said that the universities in the country admit about 250,000 of the 800,000 applicants in the country and recommended that the procedure of owning private universities be made easier for individuals and groups to admit the remaining 800,000 applicants. He said that Nigerian universities are challenged with poor facilities like e-library, urging the leadership of the house to also factor in everything affecting the smooth operation of the schools. In his ruling, the Speaker of the House, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila mandated the clerk to issue letters to the relevant stakeholders for a meeting with him today (Wednesday) at 9 am. Also, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, has convened a crucial meeting to pacify the ASUU to reconsider its position on the matter. According to a statement by the Special Adviser to the minister on Media, Nwachukwu Obidiwe, the meeting scheduled for March 12 will be chaired by Sen. Ngige. Recall that ASUU on Monday embarked on a 14-day warning strike over the non-payment of salaries of lecturers not enrolled in the Federal Government’s Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS). “The Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige has appealed to the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to reconsider its decision on the on-going strike in the interest of the nation. “Also invited to the meeting scheduled to hold at the Conference Room of the Minister of Labour and Employment are the officials of the  Ministries  of Education and Finance as well as that of the National University Commission(NUC),” the statement read.