Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta on Saturday congratulated former Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as he clocks 68 years on Sunday. Okowa said that Tinubu’s role in the attainment of democracy in the country and promotion of peace and unity as well as his leadership role in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) must be appreciated. In a statement issued on Saturday in Asaba by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, the governor recalled with gratitude the APC Chieftain”s patriotic and unrelenting service to the nation, describing him as a worthy leader with great vision and aspiration. According to him, Tinubu deserves some commendation for his leadership role in improving the nation’s political space. Okowa noted that Tinubu worked so hard from the opposition to lead his party to take over power at the centre. He urged members of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to learn from Tinubu’s consistency and loyalty to APC’s course by remaining committed to ensuring that the party returned to power in 2023. “Tinubu’s selfless service to the nation and his many accomplishments in personal and public life readily comes to mind at a time like this. “As national leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has continued to play significant roles in the growth and development of the nation as political bridge-builder. “Let me urge members of my party, the PDP to learn from the patience, consistency and loyalty to the course of opposition as epitomised by Bola Tinubu. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I congratulate His Excellency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as he celebrates his 68th birth anniversary. “In the past 68 years of a life of outstanding accomplishments and great personal fulfillment, you have not only served the people of Lagos as a two-term governor, you also served our great nation as a Senator. “In the process of your political journey, you have inspired many to become great leaders in our polity and business world and we can’t thank you enough,” he said “I join your family, friends, business associates and well-wishers to thank Almighty God for your life and to pray that He continues to bless you with robust health and imbue you with His continued guidance, protection, and enduring provision.” Okowa added.