The
Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc, nahco aviance and fast-growing European
Airline, Turkish, have signed a long – term contract that shows the increasing
confidence between the two organisations. The contract renewal which was signed recently would see the ground handler handle all Turkish passenger and cargo flights and other ramp activities in all Turkish locations in Nigeria, including Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt. Police Games: Anambra will experience economic boom – Monarch The renewal comes only a few weeks after the Company won the contract to handle
Cabo Verde Airlines, the national airline of Cape Verde. Speaking
on the development, the Group Executive Director of Commercial and Business
Development, nahco aviance, Prince Saheed Lasisi, said the decision of the
partners to extend the agreement between them is a demonstration of the trust
and confidence the parties have in each other. Lasisi
said, “The fundamental of any relationship is trust. We have been in this
relationship with Turkish for decades. Over this time, we have come to trust
each other and to look out for what is in the best interest of one another. We
are proud to be chosen consistently over others because of our excellent
service delivery and unparalleled customer experience.” The
Executive Director assured that in the long run nahco aviance will only have
itself to compete with because of the superior it had set for the industry. Award
winning Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahco aviance) is West Africa’s
leading ground handling service provider with presence in all major Nigerian
Airports. Founded in December 1979, the Company has since grown into a multi –
billion Naira Company with diversified investments in energy, logistics and
development of a free trade zone. This
has led to the establishment of Nahco Free Zone (NFZ), Mainland Cargo Options
Limited (MCO) and Nahco Energy Power and Infrastructure (EPI). The
Company has a vision to be the leading service provider, continuously
innovating and reshaping our chosen markets. NAHCO’s core values are: Safety,
Integrity, Innovation, Reliability, Respect and Empathy. The
Company offers a number of services at more than ten airports across Nigeria,
including aircraft handling, cargo handling, passenger handling crew
transportation, and passenger profiling training. The
Company has received various certifications that confirm the integrity of its
service. Some of these include ISAGO certification of which the Company was the
first ground handling company in West Africa to receive. This has been
recertified till June 2021. The Ra3 EU validation of our major stations will
expire in July, 202