Chioma Joseph Eighteen members of two rival cult groups whose constant violence in Ogudu and Ojota area resulted in the killing of eight people have been arrested by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad of the Lagos state Police Command.  The suspects, comprising 12 members of ‘Aiye Confraternity’ and six members of ‘Eiye Confraternity’ picked up in their hide-outs in parts of Lagos and Akwa Ibom states were today paraded by Lagos state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu. EFCC arrests 48 suspected internet fraudsters in Ogun The gangs, whose violent activities dated back to January 2019, when an ‘Aiye’ cult leader, Solomon Cosmos, popular known as ‘Solomon terror,’ the elder brother of Ikenna Cosmos, was violently killed by some ‘Eiye’ gang members in Ogudu, Ojota in the presence of his son. Ikenna Cosmos had in commemorating the killing of his brother on January 9, 2020 concluded arrangements to unleash violence on the perceived killers of his brother, but the police thwarted the plot after it got wind of the planned violence. But, in a new twist, the gangs commenced another round of violence in January which claimed the lives of the seven people, identified as Sule a.k.a Minister, Pamilerin and his friend, Olaolu Abiodun, Daniel, Babatunde Adebayo and Dauda Akinode. Arrested by the police were 12 ‘Aiye’ members, Ikenna Cosmos, Olamilekan Saheed, Olaide Ogungbile (a.k.a. Street Boy), Yekini Abiodun (a.k.a. Shaba), David Atanda (a.k.a. Osiki), John Abodunde (a.k.a. Badoo), Fasola Opeyemi, Adeniyi Aladegbami, Kolawole Ayotunde (a.k.a. AY), Korede Joyi (a.k.a. Dasilva), Omobolaji Ogunniyi (a.k.a BJ) and Obu Onyekachukwu. Also arrested were six ‘Eiye’ members and one Buccaneer member. They are Alade Samuel, Ahmed Saka, Nurudeen Babatunde, Odumade Damilola, Rafiu Olamilekan, Rilwan Onibudo and Bamidele Suleiman, the only member of the Buccaneer confraternity. Some of the paraded suspects had bullet wounds on their bodies, just as the state police boss reiterated the preparedness of the command to nip in the bud violence of any kind in the state, particularly cult wars.