The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has suspended all regular and non-essential activities in its headquarters and offices nationwide for 14 days from March 24. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Mr. Festus Okoye, made the disclosure in a statement on Monday in Abuja. Court fixes May 7 for judgment in Sanusi’s suit against anti-graft agency Okoye
said that the commission also suspended its regular quarterly meetings
with stakeholders and monitoring of conventions, congresses, conferences
or meetings of political parties until further notice. He said that the suspension is in view of the coronavirus pandemic and
the preventive measures put in place by the federal and state governments. “In line with the advisory on social distancing from the World Health
Organisation (WHO) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the
Commission has taken the following measures to protect its staff, visitors and
the general public. “Effective from March 24, all regular and non-essential activities will
be suspended in its headquarters and offices nationwide for 14 days in the
first instance. “The regular quarterly meetings with stakeholders, namely political
parties, civil society organisations, the media, security agencies and all
other meetings have been suspended until such a time when normalcy returns. “In addition, the commission will no longer monitor the conventions,
congresses, conferences or meetings of political parties until further notice,”
he said. Okoye reiterated the commission’s commitment
to openness, consultation and continued communication with its stakeholders and
expected all to understand the emergency situation that informed the suspension
of contact engagements. “The health and well-being of all our staff, officials and the general
public are of paramount importance to us. “Notwithstanding the measures outlined above, the commission will
continue to meet via non-physical contact channels while communication between
the commission and its stakeholders will remain open,” he said. Okoye emphasised that the new measures taken do not affect the
activities for Edo and Ondo states governorship elections scheduled for
September 19 and October 10 respectively. “We will continue to keep the public abreast of developments as they
concern our electoral process,” he said.