The former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reformed Task Team (PRTT), Abdulrasheed Maina, on Thursday denied plotting to assassinate the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) counsel or witnesses in his ongoing trial.  Maina, who told Justice Okon Abang of a Federal High Court, Abuja, in a counter-affidavit to EFCC motion on notice seeking the revocation of his bail, said the allegation to also assassinate correctional service officers in order to escape from custody, was baseless. Sanusi seeks release from ‘detenition’ The ex-pension boss said he strongly believes in his innocence and would remain in the country until he clears himself of all the malicious allegations the EFCC has fed the public against him. Reacting to the allegations in his counter-affidavit deposed to by a legal practitioner, Abass Sanni, Maina vehemently denied the allegations, describing them as unfounded and unsubstantiated. “He (Maina) has never planned or attempted to escape from the correctional facility (prison). “He has never threatened to assassinate, harass and or intimidate any of the prosecutors, correctional service officers or witnesses whatsoever in this matter or in any other matter. “He will never threaten, harass and or intimidate any of the prosecutors or witnesses in this matter,” the application read. Maina said that the EFCC was deliberately misleading the court to ensure the court does not favourably exercise its discretion in the consideration of his application to further vary the terms and conditions of the bail granted to him. He said the so-called intelligence received by the EFCC were baseless, concocted and untrue, asserting that “he (Maina) cannot even travel out or move out of the country as he has been put under a travel ban. “All his international passports (Nigerian and American) have all been handed over to the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, pursuant to an order made by the learned trial judge, Abubakar Kutigi, on November 28, 2019. “The complainant’s (EFCC) prosecutor, M.S. Abubbakar, confirmed his fulfilment of the terms and conditions of the bail granted to him by Justice Kutigi and upon being satisfied with the fulfilment of the bail conditions, ordered his release from prison,” the application added. Maina, who stated that he has never and would not attempt to influence, interfere with and intimidate witnesses or interfere in the prosecution of any of the cases involving him, swore that he has had no direct or indirect, physical or telephone contact with any prospective witness or any of the prosecutors. “None of the witnesses has lodged any complaint to the police or law -enforcement agencies or any court whatsoever about his (Maina) plan to assassinate, intimidate, threaten, abuse and or attack any of the prosecutors, correctional facility officers, any witness and or person whatsoever, against him since the commencement of investigation and trial,” he concluded.