Osogbo – Most Churches in Osogbo on Sunday closed for worship services following the directive by the Osun Government banning all public gatherings as part of the measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the state. A Correspondent  who monitored the situation, reports that many churches in the metropolis were under lock and key. Mr Wole Oyebamiji, the Secretary to the State Government, on Saturday in a statement, ordered an outright ban of all public gatherings in the state as part of measures to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus. “This in effect means there will be no church services tomorrow, March 22, 2020,” Oyebamiji said. At the Living Faith Church, Oke-Onitea, Osogbo, the church was under lock and key, while all the three services of the church were suspended due to the government directive. A member of the church, Mr Yomi Adebayo, said all members were directed to attend house fellowship close to them. The situation was not different at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Breakthrough Parish, Ogo-Oluwa, Osogbo, with the two Sunday services suspended, while the gate of the church was also under locks. Mrs Damilola Ibikunle, a member of the church said that all members were asked to hook up to the church digital television channel at their respective houses. Also at Celestial Church, Osogbo 1 Cathedral, Igbonna, members of the church were seen returning back home. One of the member, who did not mentioned her name, said the church service which usually hold by 9a.m was cancelled in line with government’s directive. Christ the King Baptist Church, along Ladipo street, Ogo-Oluwa, Osogbo, as well as Eternal Sacred order of Cherbubine and Seraphine Church, Igbonna, were also shut for services. Meanwhile, some churches who initially defied the government directive had their services interrupted by security operatives. Mr Afolabi Babawale, the Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Osun command, told NAN that officers of the corps were out to enforce the state government directive. SERAP asks Buhari to monitor spending on coronaviru Babawale said men of the corps went round the town to ensure that churches that opened for service were shut down. He said churches, who were holding services, complied to shut down when NSCDC officers got there. Babawake, however, said the NSCDC officials met resistance at a particular church in Ede, a suburb of Osogbo. (NAN)