Idris Ahmed,Lokoja. As Kogi state prepares to conduct elections into the 21 local government areas in the state, the state Governor, Yahaya Bello on Thursday inaugurated the Kogi state Independent Electoral Commission (KSIEC).  The governor also inaugurated another commission alongside the state electoral body at the Lugard House, Lokoja. READ ALSO: Police seal PDP secretariat in Ekiti as crisis deepens While the electoral commission is headed by Maman Eri, the Kogi state Judicial Service Commission is headed by the state Chief Judge, Justice Nasir Ajana. Speaking at the inauguration, the governor urged the state electoral commission to set machinery in motion by way of coming up with a time-table that would be acceptable and fair to all and within a reasonable time frame as stipulated by law. “In discharging your duties, you must study all relevant laws and be guided accordingly. You must be fair, just and you should not look at the face of anybody and you should be guided by the law. The governor also charged the state udicial service commission to continue on the path of righteousness which the judiciary is noted for. Also, he announced the appointment of a senior special assistant on security in each of the 21 local government areas of the state. The newly appointed aide on security will be in -charge of security matters in the local government areas and would report directly to the governor. “We want to reduce the crime wave in the state and maintain our position as the most secured state in the country, as we can longer tolerate any act of insecurity in the state,” Gov. Bello said. He called on security operatives in the state to intensify efforts to chase out criminal elements from the state within eight weeks and vowed not to treat anyone caught perpetrating any crime even as little as petty stealing with kid gloves. “We have to protect our judges, politicians, students, workers and every citizen must have a sense of security. Anyone who has a hand in any form of insecurity will face the consequences; all bandits would be chased out,” he vowed.