 I know Iwo in Osun State, not through some well-written historical books I read on the ancient town, but because an important part of me is connected to the place and we were always going there during my shaping years. In the 80s, we were always going there as a family. More than 30 years ago, my father and I drove to the place to check in on—one of our family members , whom my father called “big daddy” and when we were about living his place in Iwo, he went inside his shop and brought out a big-plastic of custard and gave it to me. What a gift in those days! I could not wait for my father and I to drive back home, so I could descend heavily on what the man gifted. Instead of boiling some water to prepare it for my breakfast, impatience (coupled with ignorance) did not let me read through the instruction on the plastic; I just went ahead, pouring virtually everything inside the plastic into some cold water! This was how I ended up wasting the precious gift “big daddy” gave me! Each time I remember this story, I always burst into laughter. This should let you know that I was a complete village boy before my foray into the city of Lagos, Nigeria. Also, in those days when we traveled to Iwo town, some aged men and women would start singing some words to praise us, making us bigger than our sizes, in order to get some coins out of our pockets. They would praise us that Iwo town neither has doors nor keys, but slaves…A very powerful town that is very rich in both culture and religion! In those days, when we went visiting, we would be taken to the palace of “Oluwo of Iwo.” “Oba of Iwo” was a very highly revered one, especially the one who died before the suspended one ascended the throne. I used to be an advocate of younger folks becoming kings and political leaders, but some happenings in recent times have succeeded in changing my former stance. The younger generation is clearly worse than the older generation! “The love of money” has succeeded in making us to lose all our traditional Institutions. Character was the major factor that used to determine who became a king in those days, but today, even if you are devoid of character, but have money and probably live abroad, the “gods” will pick your name. Also, gone are the days when only men of character were political leaders, but today, everything is about money. Now, we are having too many empty men—who keep oppressing (through the medium of social media) the poor man with how much they have illegitimately acquired in the corridors of power. They have become billionaires without having a singular company! When the videos of the suspended Oluwo of Iwo began to hit social media, I was completely taken aback. I never knew a day would come that a Yoruba Oba would do all he has been doing. A royal highness exchanging blows in public? I used to speak against the succession system of the ancient city of Ibadan that always throws up aged men as kings, now I know better. It takes more than money and living abroad to become “Olubadan of Ibadan,” you will need to rise through the ranks and this will take you many years. Before you become “Olubadan of Ibadan,” you would have become completely dead to youthful exuberance. Last year, I wrote on the former chairman of the APC, comrade Adams Oshiomhole that his style of leadership would end up kicking him out of the office. Being the national chairman of the ruling political party does not make everyone in the party his subjects. On the condition that he survives his current ordeal, he needs to learn how to relate to his party people with respect and needs to become tactical as a political leader. He clearly lacks tact and diplomacy! Also, he needs to leave Edo State alone. He cannot afford to become what he once kicked against! On Adams’s case, the judiciary is confusing us. How can two courts of competent jurisdiction on same level be saying two different things on a singular issue? I expected the court in Kano to affirm what the court in Abuja did. I hope justice in Nigeria is not for the highest bidder. Remember, when the people can no longer trust our courts of competent jurisdiction, they would be forced to opt for the law of an eye for an eye. Nigerians want justice to be seen to be done on every case in Nigeria. Lastly, on the former emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi being dethroned, I always like to thread with caution when the elites are fighting themselves in Nigeria. I am neither for Ganduje and those backing him up nor for Sanusi. I really do not care. What I know is that they were all together when they wanted to send GEJ Back to Otuoke! Am I speaking for GEJ? Far be it from me. Do I like him? Yes. Do I like the way he led Nigeria? No. Do I like Buhari? Yes. Do I like the way he is leading Nigeria? No. Am I on the side of truth? Yes. When a fight breaks out amongst the elites, songs always turn to proverbs. The poor man needs not be stupid. He needs to look away from “two fighting” that will not end up putting food on his table. He needs to start thinking on how he will survive the coming economic hardship. No matter what happens, Sanusi and Ganduje are forever made. Whether in exile in Nigeria or abroad, Sanusi can never put up with financial crisis. The poor people of Nigeria need to keep asking questions on the outbreak of Coronavirus across the planet earth and the coming economic hardship as an effect of the oil price that crashed some hours ago and not allow the game they are playing in Kano distract them.