The
 Andoma of Doma Kingdom in Nasarawa State, Alhaji Ahmadu Onawo has 
advocated the allocation of adequate time to the in-camp training of 
Corps Members under the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programme. He
 made this suggestion when the NYSC Director-General, Brigadier General 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, paid him a courtesy visit in his palace. He
 opined that the extension of period of the in-camp training of Corps 
Members by one or two months would help to deepen its impact. The  monarch noted the growing population of graduates being produced by  Nigerian tertiary institutions even as white collar jobs remained  difficult to secure. APC harvests new members from de-registered parties Describing
 the NYSC SAED programme as laudable, Aliyu stressed the need for other 
stakeholders to come up with similar initiatives so as to empower the 
graduate youths for self-employment. He further stated that the 
engagement of youths in productive ventures would go a long way in 
promoting security in the country. The
 traditional ruler, who spoke glowingly about the virtues of the 
Director-General, hailed him for the various feats achieved by the NYSC 
since his assumption of duty, and urged him to sustain his good works. He assured of his continued support for the Scheme. Earlier,
 the Director-General, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, informed the 
monarch of the various achievements made by the NYSC since becoming its 
Chief Executive, including the fight against fake graduates and the 
reinvigoration of the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development
 programme. Ibrahim
 said though the measures taken by the Scheme had resulted in drastic 
reduction in the number of persons making attempts to present fake 
academic cerfiticates for mobilization, there was still need for other 
stakeholders to join in addressing the problem. He
 expressed delight over the monarch’s support for NYSC, especially in 
the area of security and welfare of Corps Members, and called for the 
sustenance of the cordial working relationship between the traditional 
institution and the Scheme.