Abuja – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Monday in Abuja said it has invited to the national female under-20 team’s camp 40 players to begin preparations for Nigeria’s clash with Burkina Faso. Ademola Olajire, NFF’s Director of Communications, disclosed in a statement that the players comprised six goalkeepers, 10 defenders, 10 midfielders and 14 strikers. “The Falconets will set up camp in Abuja as from Tuesday, ahead of their 2020 FIFA Undere-20 Women’s World Cup qualifying fixture against Burkina Faso, billed for this month,’’ he said. Olajire said the first leg of the second round qualifying fixture would take place at the August 4 Stadium in Ouagadougou on March 21. “The return leg will hold a week later at the Agege Stadium in Lagos.’’ The  Burkinabes had edged out Gambia 3-2 on aggregate in the first round of the campaign. Two-time World Cup runners-up Nigeria have participated at every edition of the FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup since it was launched as an Under-19 tournament in Canada 18 years ago. Italian  improving as two more foreign nationals tested negative to Coronavirus in Lagos This year’s finals will be co-hosted by Costa Rica and Panama. The NFF had approved for the team the appointment of Moses Adukwu as the First Assistant Coach, with Bilikisu Tijani as the Second Assistant and Audu Yahaya as Goalkeepers’ Trainer. Adukwu will hold forth as head of the technical crew pending the appointment of a Head Coach. LIST OF INVITED PLAYERS Goalkeepers: Rita Akarekor (Bayelsa Queens); Christiana Obia (Osun Babes); Chiamaka Nnadozie (Paris FC, France); Omini Oyono (Confluence Queens); Christy Obis (Osun Babes); Nelly Ekeh (Bayelsa Queens)
Defenders: Omowunmi Oshobukola (Sunshine Queens); Chdinma Okeke (Madrid CFF, Spain); Esther Momoh (Confuence Queens); Ifeoma Ikenokwalu (Rivers Angels); Sarah Oloduba (Osun Babes) 
Margaret Etim (Rivers Angels); Akudo Ogbonna (Sunshine Queens); Ifeoma Paulinus (Rivers Angels); Rebecca Ajimuda (Edo Queens); Tosin Dameline (Sunshine Queens) Midfielders: Mary Saiki (Nasarawa Amazons); Basirat Amoo (Confluence Queens); Folasade Ijamilusi (FC Robo); Adebisi Saheed (Bayelsa Queens); Esther Onyenezide (FC Robo)
Rose Ekong (Sunshine Queens); Mary Adeyemi (Osun Babes); Suliat Abideen (Sunshine Queens); Celine Ottah (Bayelsa Queens); Patricia Innocent (Sunshine Queens) Forwards: Dooshima Tarnum (Nasarawa Amazons); Grace Igboamalu (Nasarawa Amazons); Precious Christopher; Rafiat Sule; Gift Monday (FC Robo); Mary Anjor (Bayelsa Queens)  Esther Adeboye; Blessing Okpe (Rivers Angels); Augusta Nwamaka (Confluence Queens); Marian Ezenagu (Rivers Angels); Mary Alfred (Confluence Queens); Precious Vincent (Sunshine Queens); Joy Omewa (Confluence Queens); Joy Jerry (Bayelsa Queens) (NAN)