The United Nations Secretary General, Antonio Guterres has said that the
world is facing a global health crisis unlike any in the 75 -year history of
the UN. The UN secretary general, who was reacting to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease that has killed thousands of people across the globe, also said that the international labour organisations across the world could lose as much as $3.4 trillion in income by the end of the year. COVID-19: UNN students travelling home stranded at Nsukka motor-parks Guterres, who said that the world is at war with coronavirus called for
more commitment from leaders to combat the effects the outbreak, will have on
economies. He said that “we
are facing a global health crisis unlike any in the 75-year history of the UN
one that is spreading human suffering, infecting the global economy and
upending people’s lives. “The effects of the
crisis on humans, especially the vulnerable, would be disastrous if governments
do not intervene by doing things differently.” The UN scribe
stated that the human crisis calls for solidarity, as the human family is being
stressed and the world’s social fabric is being torn apart, said it is evident
in the increasing number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 across the world and
deaths reported from the disease. ‘’Many people
cannot be in touch with their families or relatives even when they are at the
point of death. This is already having a psychological effect on many people
who have lost people to the disease. “My central message
is clear, we are in an unprecedented situation and the normal rules no longer
apply. “We cannot resort
to the usual tools in such unusual times. The creativity of the response must
match the unique nature of the crisis and the magnitudes of the response must
match its scale. Our world faces a common enemy. We are at war with a virus.” He added that while
the battle against the virus is ongoing, the world needs to find new ways to mitigate
the devastating outcome of the virus. “People are
suffering, sick and being scared and the current response level will not
address the global scale and complexity of the crisis. This is a moment that
demands coordinated, decisive and innovative policy action from the World’s
leading economies. “We must recognize that the poor
and the vulnerable, especially the women – will be the hardest hit,’’ he said.