9mobile has revealed that its business plans would have a trickle-down impact on the businesses of its national sales partners and dealers in 2020. This assurance
was made during its annual Channel Partners Conference with the theme, ‘Facing
the future together’. 

This event is
designed to strengthen the bond between 9mobile and its channel partners and
also, expand the business opportunities and potentials available in the
telecommunications market. The Director of
Sales at 9mobile, Mr Oluwatosin Olulana, underscored the impact which the
economy had on businesses in 2019. “Considering the economic situation
that was pervasive in Nigeria last year, we surpassed our expectations at
9mobile. We took stock of our business activities last year, with forecast and
expectations for 2020.” Olulana outlined
some propositions for 2020. “There will be more focus on simpler propositions,
staying through to our promise of delivering better service in terms of data
quality and pricing.  With the recent
expansion of our 4G network, we have increased capacity, which means that we
need to do more in terms of deployment. There is a huge potential that we can
take advantage of, and we are very optimistic about meeting our expectations
this year.” According to the
Managing Director of Sonite Communications Limited, Dr Olajide Samson, 9mobile
has been resilient despite all the challenges and have come out stronger with a
formidable management team who are receptive to the needs of its partners. They
are innovative and proactive to the aspirations of dealers and customers.
9mobile is a company with a bright prospect.” In the same
vein, the Managing Director, Clickatell, Samson Isa, restated 9mobile’s long
history of partnership with his business as well as their supportive disposition.
“It is one of the telcos that is customer-centric. They are concerned about the
profitability of our partnership. We are here to strategize on our partnership
and look at opportunities for growth and align with their business objectives.