The
Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) says it is ready to defend itself
following a lawsuit filed by Law and Rights Awareness Initiative over
regulations that allegedly grant warrantless access  to telecom
subscribers’ information, including call data. The NCC, through its spokesman, Dr Henry Nkemadu, said this while speaking with The Daily Times on Sunday, Nkemadu said he could not comment on the matter since it is subjudice. He, however, directed our correspondent to the Commission’s website for the purposes of drawing appropriate conclusions. SEC intensifies effort to close down, prosecute ponzi scheme operators, promoters Scheme According
to Law and Rights Awareness Initiative, Section 8 of Nigeria’s Enforcement
Process Regulations permits police or other relevant authorities to obtain the
“call data,” which includes the location, time, and numbers used in regular
phone calls and SMS messages, without a judicial warrant. As an
alternative, the body seeks a declaration from the court and an injunction
requiring authorities to obtain a court order before accessing telecom
subscribers’ information. Checks
by The Daily Times, however,
revealed that section 8 (2a) of the Enforcement Process regulations states that
every licensee shall ” make available basic information  that may be
required by any relevant authority pursuant to section 146 of the Act upon
presentation to the licensee a written request from such relevant authority and
without any further assurance duly signed by a police officer not below the
rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police  or its equivalent in any of the
relevant authorities.” When
asked if the NCC would deny granting access to telecom subscribers’
information through its regulations, Nkemadu fumed: “That’s very stupid of
you. Are you trying to put words in my mouth? ” According to the Committee to
Protect Journalists (CPJ), the suit claims that accessing the information
“violates and will likely further violate” Nigerians’ constitutional right to
privacy. The CPJ  had earlier accused the Nigeria Police of using call
data to lure and arrest journalists in three cases since 2017.