…Why ex-CBN gov was dethroned- Kano Govt .…Sanusi exiled to Nasarawa …His many battles with Gov Ganduje Kano State Governor, Umar Ganduje, on Monday, dethroned the 14th Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, over what the state government described as disobedience to orders from constituted authority. In his stead, the governor named the son of the late Emir Ado Bayero, Aminu Ado Bayero, as the 15th Emir of Kano. The announcement was made by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji. Before his elevation to the exalted throne, the new monarch of the ancient city of Kano was the emir of Bichi, one of the new emirates created by the Ganduje administration. Announcing his appointment on Monday, Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, said Aminu Ado Bayero’s appointment was as a result of recommendations by the four kingmakers of Kano Emirate Council. He said the new appointment is backed by Section 11 (1) of the Kano Emirate Council Law 2019. According to him, with the appointment and the approval of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Emir Aminu Ado Bayero has emerged that 15th Fulani Emir in Kano Emirate. The four kingmakers present during the announcement are Alhaji Mutari Adnan, Sarkin Bai of Kano, Alhaji Abdullahi Sarki Yola, Alhaji Yusuf Labahani Cigari and Alhaji Bello Abubakar. The announcement followed the dethronement of Muhammad Sanusi ll who has been banished to Nassarawa State. The dethronement of Muhammad Sanusi II as the 14th Emir of Kin the Fulani dynasty followed in the footstep of his grand father, Muhammad Sanusi I, who too was dethroned in 1963 in controversial circumstances by Sir Kassim Ibrahim, who was the then governor of Northern Nigeria. As the second emir to be dethroned while on the throne, Sanusi too, was accused of partisanship like his grand father who was was accused of partisanship after a recommendation of a probe panel constituted by Sir Ahmadu Bello, the then premier of Northern Nigeria. Prior to Sanusi’s removal, there was a heavy security presence at Government House on Monday, when the secretary to the state government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, read seven paragraphs press statement to journalists on why the royal father was removed. According to the statement, the Emir was in total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the State Governor and other lawful authorities, including his persistent refusal to attend official meetings and programmes organised by the Government without any lawful justification which amount to total insubordination. At a Council meeting, SSG said, in the presence of the Governor, His Deputy and all other Council members, that: “The Kano State Executive Council under the Chairmanship of His Excellency, the Governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje OFR, has unanimously approved the immediate removal/dethronement of the Emir of Kano Emirate, Muhammad Sanusi II.” He further explained that “It is on record and in so many instances Malam Muhammad Sanusi II has been found breaching Part 3 Section 13 (a – e) of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019 and which if left unchecked will destroy the good and established image of the Kano Emirate.” The removal, he disclosed, was made after due consultation with the relevant stakeholders and in compliance with Part 3 Section 13 of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019 among others. He added that the removal was done to safeguard the sanctity, culture, tradition and prestige of the Kano Emirate built over a thousand years. The Daily Times recalls the dethroned Emir Sanusi had been in a running battle with Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. The Emir in show of payback to immediate past Governor of the state, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, who facilitated his enthronement as Emir of Kano, was said to have been consistently working against the political interest of Ganduje. Their rift blew open during the 2019 governorship election in Kano State when the dethroned Emir was accused to have openly worked against Ganduje’s second term ambition. The embattled Sanusi was said to have supported the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against the norms of his throne as the traditional father who is supposed to remain neutral. The dethroned Emir is also said to have disregarded directives from Ganduje, particularly as it concerns his roles as the chairman of Kano Council of Chiefs, following the creation of four additional Emirates of Bichi, Rano, Gaya and Karaye. Sanusi, who maintained silence since the beginning of his trouble with Ganduje, has also been engrossed in series of allegations at Kano Public complaints and anti-corruption commission, were he failed to respect invitations to appear before it and answer allegations that bordered on financial misconduct. The chairman of the commission, Muhiyi Magaji, while speaking with reporters in his office last week in Kano said a whistleblower brought and forwarded a petition to the commission over land racketeering allegedly involving the Emir. Muhiyi added that investigations further revealed that some of the proceeds of the sales were traced to the companies of interest to the dethroned Emir, an allegation that was disputed by the Emirate council. Meanwhile, security operatives in Kano on Monday whisked away the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II and flew him to Nassarwa State for security reasons. Sanusi, who is likely to spend the rest of his exile in Nasarawa State was taken away amidst tight Security by the personnel of Department of State Services (DSS), Police and Military. The dethroned emir was said to have been put under house arrest within the palace by the heavy Armed Security before being moved to Nasarawa State.