Mrs Christy Abayomi-Oluwole, the Chief Executive Officer, Global Hope for Women and Children Foundation (GLOHWOC) says the organisation is partnering with Landmark University to train 120 women on entrepreneurship and skills. Abayomi-Oluwole made this known on Tuesday during a capacity gap assessment of the beneficiaries at the palace of the Olomu of Omu-Aran, Oba Abdulraheem Adeoti in Omu-Aran, Irepodun Local Government Area of Kwara. READ ALSO: Conavirus: Moscow shuts schools, stops public events She said that the beneficiaries of the scheme were carefully selected across Irepodun and Ilorin-South Council areas of the state through a constituted 15-member project steering committee that comprised of critical stakeholders. She noted that the training, which would attract seven facilitators, had been scheduled for between April 7 and April 9. According to her, the training of beneficiaries is part of a larger scheme toward empowering identified vulnerable women, girls and cooperative groups for them to be self-sufficient and reliant. She said the project tagged: “Gender Equality and Women Empowerment Scheme” is also in collaboration with Actionaid and Global Affairs Canada. The GLOHWOC boss said the beneficiaries had been grouped under Ifesowapo, Okogbemi and Abundant Multipurpose Cooperative Societies for those residents within Irepodun Local Government Area. “Those in Ilorin-South Local Government Area are grouped under Agro Women, Asejere Women and Agbeloba women Multipurpose Cooperative Societies,’’ she said. Abayomi-Oluwole listed some of the training areas and topics to include Fundamentals of Vegetable Production, Fundamentals of Maize and Guinea Corn Production and Fundamentals of Tubers Production. Others are, Poultry Production, Fishery, Animal Production, Ruminant Production as well as Crop Classroom and hand on/field/practical training. She said the training would be preceded by the opening of groups and individual accounts for the beneficiaries toward the provision of an enhancement grant for their businesses and vocations. “The project is meant to identify vulnerable persons, especially women, girls and non-registered cooperative societies for financial literacy assistance for them to be self-sufficient and legally registered to function effectively,” Abayomi-Oluwole said. Dr Elizabeth Alori, the Head of Department, Soil and Crop Science, Landmark University, Omu-Aran, and a member of the project steering committee, expressed the institution’s readiness to promote agriculture mechanisation among the womenfolk. She was optimistic that the training would afford the beneficiaries more knowledge and information on agricultural practices, entrepreneurship, skills and vocations