…APC NWC not factionalised – NPS As the survival of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as the national chairman hang in the balance, his interest has further endangered the unity of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Two different stakeholding blocs of the party on Monday held divergent views over the suspension of the chairman. Forum of APC state chairmen rose from a meeting in Abuja on Monday to pass vote of confidence on him while the South – South caucus of the party backed his suspension. The Forum resolved to stand firmly behind the National Chairman and to defend the sanctity of the constitution of the party with regards to upholding its supremacy. In a statement signed by Hon. Ali Bukar Dolari, Chairman, APC Borno State, and Dr. Ben Nwoye, Chairman, APC Enugu State and Secretary, Forum of APC State Chairmen, passed a vote of confidence on Oshiomhole for his quality, purposeful and directional leadership. By this resolve, the chairmen said it is determined to wade-off all perceived and real threats by detractors and enemies of the party to inhibit the implementation of democratic ethos as currently being championed by the National Chairman. “The State Chairmen being members of NEC and critical stakeholders of our party, dissociate ourselves from the ongoing brigandage intended to disorganise the peace we have been enjoying in the party. These acts if successful would only weaken the political strength of our great party. “We, the State Chairmen, frown at the level of impunity being experienced in our great party in which, unauthorised individuals will issue press statements using the name of our party to deceive the leaders of the party and the unsuspecting public, thereby causing disaffection among the party leadership. All individuals involved in this practice should be mindful that their conduct is prohibited under the relevant sections of our party Constitution. “We, the State Chairmen, unequivocally state that the party is bigger than the inordinate ambition of any individual and as such, we will not tolerate any unlawful step(s) by those igniting crisis in our party”, the statement read. On the contrary, the South-south APC leaders stood by Oshiomhole’s suspension and disowned statement by Hillard Eta’s vote of confidence on him. The caucus said Eta, the National vice chairman, South- South, was expressing his personal opinion and not that of the region. While expressing total support for the National Working Committee (NEC) meeting slated for 17th of March, the caucus called for Oshiomhole’s removal if found culpable by NEC. The South-south APC leaders said this at a news conference in Abuja, Monday. Chief Ray Morphy and Dr. Bruce Ugbode, on behalf of the caucus, said: “We read in the papers today (Monday) about some people saying that the entire South-south is with Oshiomhole. No, that is not correct. That is the kind of dictatorial policy they have been operating. That is not correct. We are not happy with him. We certainly are not satisfied with what is going on in the last elections that we took part in, there were low hanging fruits. Akwa Ibom was there. “Delta and Cross River states were there and many other places. We lost so many states just like Zamfara and others because of the inability of the people who run the party to carry along other people. Primaries were shoddy. Credible people who are capable of winning lections were shut out due to shoddy primaries. “We support those who want to renew the party. We want a situation where this party gets a new breathe of life. “This is not a matter of 2023 as my brother Hilliard Eta has said. It is about the survival of the party. Can you imagine a party where somebody sat down and suspended top officials? That is why we have this vacuum. “We support the call for the NEC by the Acting Secretary, Giadom, because that is the only way we can give opportunity to the party to regain itself. We ask our people all over the country to lend their support for that meeting. When we have that meeting, we can now have the opportunity to renew this party and we call on all leaders and members of the party to support this NEC meeting.” Meanwhile, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Lanre Issa – Onilu, said the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC has not been factionalised or in the nature of crisis being repeatedly reported in a section of the media. He stated this in a statement issued in Abuja on Monday. He said in a political organisation such as the APC, contestations are not unusual and are not necessarily intractable. “The issues being alluded to in the media reports are matters before the courts and should be allowed to run their normal and legal course. The exaggerated story foreboding Armageddon is far-fetched. “We call on members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the Party’s secretariat staff to resume at their offices and continue carrying out their scheduled roles and responsibilities without any fear. “Finally, we thank the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, personnel of the Police, Department of State Services and other Security Services for their professionalism in the process of maintaining the peace and preventing hoodlums from formenting trouble at the APC National Secretariat. “We assure all our members in Nigeria and across the world that our leaders are capable of resolving any contestations that may arise bearing in mind the best interests of our great party and in the pursuit of progress and development of our country”, he said.