The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) in Cross River state has embarked on an indefinite strike over the kidnap of the wife of their colleague, Mrs. Christian Ekanem, a staff of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital. In a communique, jointly signed on Thursday in Calabar, by the Chairman of NMA in the state, Dr .Agam Ayuk and the Secretary, Dr. Ezoke Epoke, respectively, the NMA said the victim was kidnapped on Marrh 10 by unknown gunmen. READ ALSO: The association disclosed that from 2017 to date, no fewer than 15 medical doctors and their dependents have been kidnapped within the state. Ayuk explained that the decision to embark on the strike followed the position taken by the association after an Emergency General Meeting held on January 8, 2018. According to him, the position holds that the NMA in Cross River state will henceforth withdraw all medical services without any notice anytime a doctor or dependants are taken captive in future. He lamented that the perpetrators have struck again, thereby adding untold hardship and emotional distress to the family and the association. “The unfortunate incident of the kidnap of the wife of a member of NMA is worrisome. She was kidnapped at her home in Satellite Town in Calabar on Macrh 10, 2020. “The NMA in Cross River state is not unmindful of the impact of the withdrawal of medical services on the good people of the state. However, we cannot continue to save lives while we are under constant threat by armed bandits and kidnappers. “NMA in Cross River state has proceeded on a total and indefinite withdrawal of medical services in both the private, public and institutional hospitals in the state. “This include University of Calabar Teaching Hospital, Federal Neuro -Psychiatry Hospital, general hospital, medical centres, mission hospitals and private clinics with immediate effects,” Ayuk declared. He added that the action would continue until the wife of their colleague, Prof. Emmanuel Ekanem, is released and called on the state government and security agencies to expedite action by ensuring the unconditional release of all victims currently in the captivity of kidnappers