Lagos State
Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday revealed plans to partner with the
private sector in a bid to transform the education sector of the State in line
with his T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. The
collaboration, Sanwo-Olu stated is necessary for the private sector to uphold
the structures laid out by the Government for the advancement of education,
saying that the government alone cannot do it. The Governor made the disclosure during a Public-Private Partnership Dialogue at the Eko Hotels and Suites, organised by the State Ministry of Education with the theme: Creating A Better Future Through Education. COVID-19: BMO commends Buhari for pro-activeness Sanwo-Olu
said his administration was committed to delivering quality education in public
schools across the State by increasing the budgetary allocation of the sector
from the paltry N65 billion to N135 billion to drive a policy that will achieve
performance. According to
him: “the questions here today are, what should we be teaching? who should
design the curriculum, who should we include in the policy, where should we do
the teaching? How do we manage the outcome, how do we assess pupils and how do
we collaborate? Finally, how do we pay for all of these? “Why I’m
saying this is because I listened to the points and I could take a few
questions and a few things back home and I realized that even as a government,
we cannot do it by ourselves. And that’s why we have called ourselves here
today.” The Governor
stated that his administration would continue to strengthen partnership with
stakeholders and scale up capacity of the educational system through
technology, infrastructure development in schools, among others to guarantee a better
future for the children. He recounted
some of the successes his administration has recorded in the ministry in less
than a year of piloting the affairs of the State and reiterated that he will
continue to ensure that teaching becomes a competitive discipline in Lagos
State, saying that it is possible to pass World Class knowledge to pupils. “We’ve
commissioned to build a total of about 60,000 chairs and tables and we’re
hoping that we’ll wrap it up to about 100,000 before the end of the year. We’re
pushing infrastructure in about 300 schools this year. We started with the
first set of about 60. “We have also
set up a whole unit which we call School Rehabilitation and Infrastructure
Development just to face school rehabilitation and development and we’re working
with the ministry on that.” The
Commissioner for Education, Folashade Adefisayo, thanked the Governor for his
continuous support to the ministry and also disclosed that the aim of the event
was to improve on the already existing collaboration between the private and
public sector. Adefisayo
assured of the government’s willingness to go on with the partnership in order
to achieve its standard educational goals in the state. Her words:
“Our purpose is to deepen and improve the partnership between the government
and private sectors. Although it is already existing, we want to build it
further so that we can get a top-notch result which will reflect in the lives
of our pupils. It is a joint decision.”