The management of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GTBank) Plc has announced plans to hold its 2019 audited result and accounts Annual General Meeting on Monday by proxy. The Company Secretary, GTBank, Erhi Obebeduo
in a statement to shareholders and Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on Wednesday
said, “Kindly be informed that GTBank had published the Notice of its 30th
Annual General Meeting (AGM) which is scheduled to hold on March 30, 2020.

“Following the publication of the said Notice
of the AGM, the Company is not unaware of the health hazards arising from the
COVID-19 pandemic, which could be exacerbated by public gatherings. As a result
of the said pandemic, there have been global directives to adopt social
distancing measures, leading to National and State Governments placing
restrictions on public gatherings, meetings and movements. Lagos State, which
is the venue of the Company’s AGM, has issued directives banning public
gatherings of more than 25 people. “We
are pleased to inform you that the Corporate Affairs Commission has graciously
approved that the AGM should hold with ATTENDANCE BY PROXY to minimize social
contact. To this end, Shareholders are encouraged to appoint proxies to
represent them at the meeting, as the Company would abide by the Lagos State
Government directive of not having more than 25 people in a gathering (or any
other number as may be permitted at the date of the meeting). “Thus, as a law-abiding corporate citizen,
the number of people that would be allowed into the venue of the AGM will be
restricted to the number the Lagos State Government permits for social/public
gatherings as at the date of the Meeting.

Kindly note that the measures above take into
consideration the provisions on quorum for the meeting, as a quorum can be
achieved either by physical attendance or by proxy.” He explained further that shareholders are advised to appoint proxies and send the duly completed proxy form(s) to the Registrar, Datamax Registrars Limited, No. 2c, Gbagada Express Road, Gbagada Phase 1, Lagos State, or via email to datamax@datamaxregistrars.com, not less than 48 hours before March 30, 2020. “The AGM would also be streamed live on the
Bank’s website and Shareholders are encouraged to log in to observe
proceedings. “The Shareholders who are able to
attend the AGM would be properly screened at the security points and be
required to undergo safety/health measures as directed by the Nigeria Centre
for Disease Control and the Lagos State Ministry of Health”, the statement
added.