A Zamfara-based political pressure group, Concerned Citizens of Zamfara, has debunked claims that 41 chieftains of All Progressives Congress (APC) including relatives of former Governor Abdul’aziz Yari, defected in Talata Mafara Local Government Area to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The group in a statement by its Secretary, Musa Gusau, described the claims as misleading and conceived to ridicule Yari, whom it described as the leader of APC in the state. Your life full of unrelenting service to humanity, Adesina tells Obasanjo The statement reads:”The
people of Zamfara state have rejected the PDP and all that it represents. Hence,
in the face of imminent defeat, the PDP resorted to lying. While Zamfara PDP lies about
APC members’ defection to the PDP, the APC is consolidating for victory at
the Supreme Court. “While the PDP
wallows in lies, the leader of Zamfara APC, Abdul’aziz Yari, is focused on
bettering the lives of APC supporters, addressing internal crisis of APC,
revamping the structure in Zamfara APC, restoring our hopes in the APC and
confronting the challenges we face as a party. “As usual, Zamfara
PDP is continuing with its series of lies against Yari and the APC in Zamfara
This time, they claimed 41 APC chieftains including Yari’s relatives
defected from APC to PDP in Talata Mafara, the home town of Yari. “The questions we
need to first ask Zamfara PDP about the so-called defection of 41 APC
members are which among the so-called defectors can be regarded as a strong
politician with structures in Talata-Mafara? “Who among them is
even part of the APC local government party structure in Talata-Mafara? Why has
Zamfara PDP refused to mention the names of these so-called 41 chieftains of
APC they have received as defectors from APC in Talata-Mafara? “Why have they not
mentioned the name of any of Yari’s relatives or family member who defected to
PDP in Talata-Mafara? It’s obvious that people are using defection strategy to
deceive Governor Bello Matawalle and Zamfara PDP. “In clear terms, no APC member in Talata-Mafara dumped
the party and joined the PDP. In fact, just of recent, all the APC party
chieftains from Talata-Mafara Local Government Area visited Yari just to let
him know that they are still committed to the party.”