Zenith Bank Plc has
again emerged as the Most Valuable Banking Brand in Nigeria with a market
capitalisation of $1.62 billion and a brand value $287 million, the recently
released Banker Magazine Top 500 Banking Brands 2020 revealed. With this development,
the lender for the third consecutive year has been ranked as the number one
banking brand in Nigeria, however, settled for spot 392 in 2020 global
ranking of banks. According to the February
edition of The Banker magazine of the Financial Times Group in conjunction with
London-based Brand Finance, brand value is the licensing rate that a
third-party would need to pay to use the bank’s brand. “All brand values in the report is for the year ending December 31, 2019. Zenith Bank has clearly distinguished itself in the Nigerian financial services industry through superior service quality, unique customer experience and sound financial indices. Nigerian Army releases 223 children cleared of having ties with Boko Haram “The bank, with a knack
for setting the pace and raising benchmarks, is a clear leader in the digital
space with several firsts in the deployment of innovative products, solutions
and an assortment of alternative channels that ensure convenience, speed and
safety of transactions”, it stated. Meanwhile, Zenith Bank,
who recently announced an impressive result for the year ended December 31,
2019, declared a Profit After Tax (PAT) of N208.8 billion, achieving the feat
as the first Nigerian Bank to cross the N200 billion mark. Consistent with this
excellent performance and in recognition of its track record of exceptional
performance, Zenith Bank was voted as the Best Commercial Bank in Nigeria 2019
by the World Finance and the Best Digital Bank in Nigeria 2019 by Agusto &
Co. The bank was also
recognised as Bank of the Year and Best Bank in Retail Banking at 2019
BusinessDay Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Awards. Most
recently, the bank emerged as the Bank of the Decade (People’s Choice) at the Thisday
Awards 2020.