Following the demise of one of the greatest Chief Executive
Officers (CEOs) in the history of America, John Francis Welch, an American
business magazine, Forbes has revealed major lessons entrepreneurs should learn
from the business tycoon. Welch death was announced in a statement by General Electric
CEO, Larry Culp on Tuesday. “Today is a sad day for the entire GE family. Jack was
larger than life and the heart of GE for half a century. He reshaped the face
of our company and the business world. ‘’Jack was a strong and constant influence throughout my
career despite never having worked directly for him. “Welch died on Sunday,’’ Culp said. Welch was an American business executive, chemical engineer,
and writer. He was chairman and CEO of General Electric (GE) between 1981 and
2001. Welch, who was named “Manager of the Century” by
Fortune magazine in 1999, massively increased the scope and financial might of
GE (GE) during his time at the top of the company. The market value of the
stock rose from $14 billion to more than $400 billion, an increase of more than
2,700%, during those 20 years. Forbes in a recent report, said that one major lesson to be learnt from Welch was courage. Cyber-crime: FBI visits EFCC, commends Magu over collaboration ‘’Welch was famously tough and combative. That isn’t the
courageous aspect of his character. Courage allowed him to do what he thought
necessary, even though it would draw criticism to him and GE. ‘’Jettisoning businesses that weren’t wining in their sector
takes courage of conviction. This is especially true when the leader who
acquired them is also the one to say, “This isn’t working.” Often leaders find
it hard to give up on something they previously thought pretty great. ‘’The courage to give relevant, face-to-face feedback, is
rare. Often leaders wait until they are flaming mad to be candid. At this
point, the message comes colored with anger and frustration that makes it
difficult to hear the essence. Welch’s messages to his team have been described
as lengthy and thoughtful. Even a critical message is more likely to be heard
when it is relevant to the job at hand,’’ the report noted. Forbes also noted that his speed in business was very
paramount to note. It explained that Welch was criticized for the speed at
which he acted, perhaps especially when he reduced the workforce at GE
dramatically. He avoided the damage done by inaction or act taken too slowly,
which can sink an enterprise, not just public companies. Welch’s tendency appears to have been action, but he also
had resources to support good decisions, not merely fast ones. The right information,
meaning that which is relevant to your decisions, combined with decisiveness,
enables leaders to take advantage of opportunities that others miss. In matters of people and performance, Welch is reported to
have spent an extraordinary amount of time. Speed isn’t always about being
faster. It’s about using the right speed given the destination and
conditions. The report also advised that believing in Luck is also a
driving force for business growth. Welch’s successor, Jeff Immelt faced the head winds from the
financial market meltdown early in his tenure. The circumstances outside of
Immelt’s control are not a complete explanation for GE’s loss of value. Nor are
the more positive conditions under which Welch led the only cause of his
success. Neither man is completely understood if we look only at the financial
results of GE. According to the report, ‘’circumstances change, markets
shift, fears of novel viruses disrupt supply chains and upend plans. Welch led
GE at an auspicious time. While it’s worth studying what he did well, ignoring
luck as a factor gives a partial view. ‘’The human cognitive tendency is to simplify events,
results, and people because it’s much easier than working to understand things
with their variations and external factors. ‘’If we are to learn from Welch, it is important to
understand the man beyond the labels. If business schools do not teach students
about Welch in a wholistic way, it cheats students out of the opportunity to
practice thinking in a way that will be of far greater value to them than any
mythologized version. ‘’Wise teachers caution their students against blind
followership and idol worship. Wise leaders know that they are teachers and
that over-simplifying leads to as many faulty decisions as over-complicating.
Welch knew he was a teacher as evidenced by his actions while leading GE and in
retirement. We can learn from what he explicitly taught and from observing what
he did.’’