The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has reiterated the unwavering commitment of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to the safety and security of Nigeria and Nigerians. NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, made this known in a statement in Abuja. Daramola said Abubakar made the commitment when he visited Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state at the Government House, Ado-Ekiti. He said his visit to Ekiti state is to assess the site for the proposed international agro-allied cargo airport being developed by the state government. ”The NAF working in synergy with other security agencies will continue to do everything humanly possible to ensure that Nigerians remain secured, wherever they live in the country,” the air chief assured. The chief of air staff said that NAF in furtherance of President Muhammadu Buhari’s policy thrust of ensuring the security of all Nigerians has established 13 new units across the country in the past four and a half years or there about. He said these include the quick response groups and wings as well as detachments at Ipetu Ijesha in Osun state, Gusau in Zamfara state and Owerri in Imo state. Other units, he said were Daura and Katsina in Katsina state, Gembu in Taraba state and Agatu in Benue state as well as a combat search, and rescue group at Kerang in Plateau state. ”Additionally, the federal government’s commitment to the security of the nation is also reflected in the fact that it has acquired 22 brand new aircrafts for the NAF in the last four and half years with another 16 due for delivery soon,” Abubakar added. He said these include an additional Mi-17 helicopter, which is expected to arrive in April, as well as three JF-17 Thunder multi-role fighter aircrafts and 12 Super Tucano attack aircrafts, which would be delivered to the NAF in November and early 2022 respectively. Abubakar said that he is excited about the Ado-Ekiti airport project because it would further boost the ability of the NAF to project air power in the south-west zone, since the service would be able to conduct operations from the airport. He equally noted that the socio-economic benefits of such a project would also have a positive impact on security as many youths would be employed and economic activities would undoubtedly receive a boost. Earlier, Gov. Fayemi expressed delight to have the chief of air staff visit Ekiti state in what he termed a historic visit, adding that he is delighted by the promptness of Abubakar’s responses to requests made concerning the actualisation of the Ekiti state airport project. The governor said a manifestation of this is the fact that the air chief was in Ekiti just over a month after the first meeting was held in Abuja, for preliminary discussions to solicit the NAF’s support for the project. He noted that the proposed airport, apart from serving as a base to enhance the NAF’s air defence capability in the south-west would of course boost the agriculture value chain in the state.