The business of freight
forwarding is being uplifted by BMTC Logistics Limited going by the words of
the Chief Executive Officer/Group Managing Director of the company, Hon.
Audullahi Saheed Mosadoluwa. Speaking on the journey of the company so far in a brief interview in his office recently, Mosadoluwa stated that BMTC has been able to survive some of its challenges in recent years and that the company has been vindicated after a case that was filed against him and the company. Only foreign organisations that meet requirement will operate in Nigeria – SON He added that the company suffered a lot of setbacks for over two years during the legal tussle
and that all his corporate and personal accounts were frozen, which he said
simply meant that he had to shut down the company’s offices in Nigeria, Dubai,
including that of China until the truth was discovered by the Nigeria Police. He, however, added that
the company is now back and better with new ideas. “We develop totally
integrated solutions that foster communication between suppliers,
manufacturers, distributors, and users by optimizing the use of browser-based
tools, cross-functional technologies, and e-business tools. “As one of the
leading Ocean Freight Forwarders, we offer efficient sea freight solutions
customized to your needs. “From Full
Container Loads (FCL) to Less than Container Loads (LCL), on all major global
routes, with guaranteed transit times, just as a major global Air Freight
Forwarding Company, we take our delivery responsibility seriously. “While our primary
responsibility lies in planning and monitoring every project, our logistics
experts are geared to observe and find different areas that will give you more
expeditious results-be it while meeting with your project managers and
suppliers to review material and equipment needed for transport,” he said. Mosadoluwa said further
that BMTC Logistics Limited is back and stronger beyond where they were before and
that they have their presence in the United Kingdom and would be back fully in
China, India and Turkey office to serve their customers before 24th May 2020. On the involvement of
New Horizon Agency in Insurance Scheme, he said that the aim was to bring
capable hands together as FBN Hajj and Umrah Health Tahamin Policy consultant
and that this led to the need to redress and that he saw the opportunity in
becoming the bridge in serving as the Third Party Administrator (TPA) serving
insurance companies and international healthcare and other service providers. “New Horizon
Agency, as FBN Insurance consultant vision is to promote and grow the
capability of Nigeria Health Insurance suppliers to provide expertise,
development and delivery of healthcare services to Nigerians travelling
abroad,” he said.