…As Fayemi urges Ekiti residents to be calm over his self-isolation The Director General of the Nigerian Governors Forum,
Asishana Okauru, his wife, Ifueko, and their entire household will be
proceeding on self-isolation following Okauru’s exposure to the Bauchi State
governor, Sen. Bala Mohammed, who has tested positive for Coronavirus. Okauru who disclosed this in a statement said the action has
become necessary following his attendance of the Nigerian Governors Forum and
Nigerian Economic Council both of which were attended by Governor Mohammed of
Bauchi. This is even as the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum,
and governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has doused the tension emanating
from the news that he had gone into self-isolation over the Coronavirus
disease. Fayemi urged Ekiti citizens not to panic over the
development, saying he only took precautionary measures to prevent the spread
of the disease. Okauru in the statement said, “I wish to inform the
general public that my wife together with my entire household will be
proceeding on self-isolation. “We are taking this action following my exposure to
Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, who announced the positive outcome of
his test for COVID-19. “I attended different meetings of the Nigeria
Governors’ Forum and the Nigerian Economic Council last week, which were also
attended by the Bauchi State governor. Consequently, my wife and I would be
undergoing COVID-19 testing this week. “All members of NGF Secretariat that were exposed will
be observing self-isolation. We encourage all those invited to the NGF meetings
for presentations to also do same.” Fayemi said his action became imperative having come in
contact with those suspected of having covid-19. Fayemi on Tuesday broke the news on his twitter handle that
he had self-isolated, following startling and shocking revelation that some top
presidential aides and his colleague governors, had tested positive to the
disease. Fayemi, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka
Oyebode, said: “No cause for alarm, I just took this step as a normal
precautionary measure.” Fayemi added, “with the circumstance we find ourselves
today, every citizen must engage in personal hygiene and take actions that can
help us overcome this challenge and that exactly I have done. “I had had gone in contact with those having suspected cases
and I felt I have to do this to help the situation,” he said. Fayemi urged the citizens to abide by the directive on
social distancing and hand washing to safeguard the state from spreading the
disease. Nigeria presently has 44 confirmed cases of Coronavirus and
one recorded death, with two recoveries. Apart from the Bauchi State governor, Abba Kyari, Chief of
Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, is another prominent Nigerian that has
tested positive for the virus.