President Muhammadu Buhari has shared his heartfelt sorrow with Senator Ben Murray-Bruce on the loss of his wife of 41 years, Evelyn. Femi Adesina Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity said President Buhari asked God to comfort the Senator, who represented Bayelsa East in the 8th Assembly, the children left by the deceased, and the entire family. Urging them to take solace in the quality of life lived by the departed, President Buhari beseeches God to soothe their pains, and grant succour to all those who mourn Mrs Evelyn Murray-Bruce. President Buhari also asked God’s comfort for Dr Uche Diala, Coordinator, Buharist Hang Out, who lost his father, Sir Gervace Diala, aged 85. The President said the departed left his footprints on the sands of time, being survived by accomplished children, who would keep the flag of the Diala dynasty flying. What it’s like contract Coronavirus Sir Diala, who hailed from Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo State, was a renowned educationist, devout Christian, community leader, mentor, and man of integrity – virtues which President Buhari urges those he left behind to approximate. He enjoins the family to be comforted by the fact that their patriarch lived a life worthy of emulation, and his good deeds would follow him. Sen. Ben Murray-Bruce on Friday took to his Facebook page to announce the death of his wife, Evelyn Murray-Bruce, saying he lost her to cancer.

The Senator said he was heart broken, adding that they had been married for 41 years though their friendship began 43 years ago. Sen. Ben Murray-Bruce  however, refused to disclose the type of her cancer. “I just lost my beautiful wife to cancer, she was my best friend for 43 years and my wife for 41 years. “Cancer is real, but it should not be a death sentence. Awareness, early detection and treatment are key to survival,” he said. ‪ The 64-year-old Senator said that the children were devastated by the news of her death and he was equally, stressing that he would have to be strong for the children He urged Nigerians to put his family in their prayers, adding that “like the sun, my wife was a blessing and touched the lives of everyone she met. ” Though she is gone, she will remain alive in our hearts forever, I miss you, my sweetheart, and my most beautiful girl,” he said