Former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has advocated palliative measures to help Nigerians contain the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. He suggested transfer of between N5, 000 and N10, 000 from the last
tranche of the recovered Abacha loot to about 38 million Nigerian bank users. Stressing the fact that much of the Nigerian public have a subsistence
existence, the politician said a large percentage of Nigerians do not have the
financial capacity to withstand long periods of self- isolation. He therefore, said it is incumbent on the federal and state governments
to provide palliatives to the Nigerian people to enable them survive, even as
they abide by the necessary measures put in place for their own safety. In a statement on Wednesday, the PDP presidential candidate said that “thus, as a patriotic duty, I suggest that the federal government make use of the latest tranche of the Abacha loot in making a transfer of between ₦5, 000 and ₦10, 000 to each of the 38.5 million bank accounts in Nigeria verified by the Bank Verification Number policy. Monarch blames policy inconsistencies for nation’s infrastructural decay “In that way, heads of households all over the federation can buy
foodstuff, water, medicines and other necessities for their dependents, and the
effect can trickle down to benefit the national economy. “If these funds have not yet been released to Nigeria by the United
States, then I suggest that the federal government immediately make a case to
the US authorities for the immediate release of the funds on compassionate
grounds, a request I know that President Donald Trump, being a humanitarian,
will look kindly into.” He also called on all mobile telephony companies in Nigeria to urgently
develop mobile money platforms so that government can reach the unbanked with
financial assistance. Atiku urged these telecommunications firms to offer each of the 100
million mobile phone lines in Nigeria free credit of at least ₦1, 500 per
mobile line, so that Nigerians who show symptoms, or those who just want
information can call the nearest available health facility, or even an
ambulance service, as the case may be. He called on the National Assembly to convene an emergency session,
perhaps by teleconference (in the spirit of social distancing) to legislate a Stimulus
Package Act that will cater for all Nigerian citizens, including the unbanked
and those in the rural areas by ensuring that the coronavirus does not deepen
extreme poverty in Nigeria. This is as he applauded the various state governments that have
proactively taken measures, such as issuing stay at home orders and shutting
down markets, and other places of mass gatherings, while also giving guidelines
for social distancing. Atiku commended all individuals and corporate organisations that have
one way or the other provided some form of relief for the Nigerian
people. “This is what makes Nigeria great, when we help each other at such
crisis times as this, irrespective of any differences. I further call on more
corporations and individuals with capacity, to assist the public in these
trying times,” he pleaded.