Lagos – The National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), on Friday urged the Federal Ministry of Transport to declare a 21-day  force majeure to ensure waiver on demurrage in the ports. The Secretary General of NAGAFF, Dr Dipo Olayoku, made the  appeal in a statement in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that force majeure refers to removal of liability for natural and unavoidable catastrophes that interrupt the expected course of events and restrict participants from fulfilling obligations. NAGAFF urged the Federal Government and the Nigeria Shippers’ Council to ensure that shipping lines and terminal operators would not exploit freight forwarders through arbitrary charges and demurrage. “In times of emergency like this, the interest of freight forwarders should be strictly protected. “This is why we want government to make a categorical statement that will allay the fears of freight forwarders,  that they will not bear the brunt of the likely effect of delay in cargo clearance which is bound to occur in this time of national emergency. “The transport ministry should declare a “force majeure” for at least 21 days during which demurrages will be waived,” he said. Olayoku advised  freight forwarders to observe all the precautionary measures announced by the government and agencies tackling the dreaded COVID–19, to check its spread. READ ALSO: House of Reps acquires more Toyota Camry 2020 model cars for members He urged freight forwarders to observe social distancing by avoiding over – crowded places, maintaining a distance of two feet away from  another person, and avoiding  people sneezing or coughing. Olayoku added that they should regularly wash their hands, up to the elbows, with soap and running water for at least 20 seconds, and maintain personal hygiene at all times. “Freight forwarders are reminded of their strategic position in international trade and revenue generation for the government which forbids them from shutting down completely. “However, at the same time, their health safety should be paramount if they must continue to function effectively and efficiently even after the scourge must have gone. “For this reason, the NAGAFF management is urging freight forwarders to, apart from observing all the safety measures mentioned above, endeavour to be indoors and transact their freight forwarding businesses online, where possible. “They should come out only when it is absolutely necessary to transact their businesses at the ports,” he said. He urged  shipping companies, and terminal operators and government agencies involved in port activities to upgrade their systems such that interactions with them could be done online to reduce human contacts in their operations. He said that in fulfillment of its obligations to freight forwarders and observing social distancing policy of government, NAGAFF’s national headquarters would remain open, but with only few  workers. (NAN)