Hon. Matthew Iduorygkemwen is the Vice  Captain, UBTH Golf Club  Benin and a former member  of the Edo State House of  Assembly. All my life I had known just  the combat sport of Taekwondo.  I was so vast in this sport  and presented a formidable  opponent to versatile guys in  the country who were in the  game. I could remember when  I came into the Edo House of  Assembly during the era of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Senator  Uche Chukwumerije, an equally  versatile player in the game  coming to give us a pep talk at  the Assembly. After the outing, I  could remember Chukwumerije  warning members of the House  who could be moved to throw  chairs during rowdy plenary sessions to beware of me. We all  laughed that off. All this while, I was seeing the  game of golf from afar and was  so fascinated with the caliber of  people who played the game.  About the same time I was  getting less keen on Taekwondo.  I could reason quickly that given my huge frame and my  fame in Taekwondo, some guys  did walk pass me with utmost  caution with this total belief that I was a dangerous specie. I  didn’t like this one bit because  that wasn’t me. To live through who my real  self is, I promptly jumped into  the game of golf. I came in  with huge zeal such that I was  receiving lessons from about  four golf professionals at the  same time and this quickly  showed in the way I quickly  grew in the game. Even though  I joined both Benin and UBTH  Golf Clubs, I indeed chose  UBTH as my golf base. The  reason is clear enough. I am a  long hitter and the UBTH course  presents such a wide and long  fairways where I could totally  express myself. You know Benin Golf course  is a bit tight. I must say it is so  easy to get addicted to the game  of golf. From the moment I came into it I am always seen at either  the UBTH or the Benin course.  I don’t even have a time for the  game. I could be lounging in my hotel and all of a sudden  the urge to play would just grip  me and off I would be to the  golf course. Even on my trips, my golf set forms part of my  luggage. The game often takes me away  from home but I do get away  with it since my wife equally plays. She even claimed that me  being on the course gives her  rest of mind that I could be free from mischiefs. But these days, I play less golf because I do a lot  of other things being the head of  Governor Obaseki second term  campaign team.