Former Deputy Majority Whip of the House of Representatives, Pally Iriase on Thursday said Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state has not adequately explained how he spent over N266.2 billion in 38 months as there is nothing on ground to show that the state got such a huge sum in less than four years. Iriase made this demand in a statement made available to the media on Thursday. He said that “previously, I made it abundantly clear that the Obaseki government is suffering from lacklustre performance and I still stand by that position, despite paid propaganda and media hype. Explain how you spent N251bn, APC chieftain tells Obaseki “In the last 38 months, Obaseki has earned over N266.2 billion from Federal Account and Allocation Committee distributions and internally generated revenue, but come to Edo state there’s nothing on ground to show for this huge sum of money. “As we speak now, all the public schools are in a comatose state, as communities have to employ ad -hoc teachers to teach their children. “Under the red roofs that became the hallmark of the Oshiomhole initiated school projects, there were no follow- ups by Obaseki. Learning has become a mockery in the face of acute shortage of teachers. “The health sector in the state is also begging for attention as there’s no functional state- owned hospital. God forbid, if COVID-19 comes here, we will be in big trouble. “So what happened to all the money Obaseki collected within this period? After boasting that he constructed over 2, 000km roads in the state, in reply to my earlier revelation, the issue now is, where are the roads?” Iriase wondered. The former House of Representatives member added that before Oshiomhole left office, stating that the Edo people are asking what happened to the revenue that has accrued to the state since the current administration came to power. “Since Oshiomhole left, the state has remained abysmally backward. Obaseki has no landmark and no capital intensive project worthy of Mr. President’s visitation for commissioning anywhere in Edo state in his entire tenure. “The Edo voters are waiting for an adequate explanation in this election year,” Iriase added.