…to clamp down on motorcycle operators in restricted areas The FCT Police Command yesterday paraded a three man armed robbery gang that killed a pregnant woman during a robbery operation in Apo on January 26. Addressing Journalists in Abuja, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, said following intensified efforts of the Command the suspects were arrested from their hideout in Dei Dei even as other gang members are still at large. Union to collaborate with DPR to fish out illegal gas outlets in llorin He explained that the armed robbers shot and killed the pregnant woman after collecting N500,000 from her. Members of the gang include; Kingsley Ugo (Male 49 years), Chizoba Nwafor (Male 32 years) and Chidoze Onoha (male 34). Also, Ciroma revealed that the Command has commenced investigation into the violent riot that led to the recent closure of Dutse market. “The four suspect arrested in connection with the unfortunate incident are currently under investigation and will be arraigned in court upon the conclusion of investigation. “It is therefore,  important to inform you that among the suspects to be paraded today are: two suspects arrested at Lugbe Zone 9 for assaulting some police personnel while responding to a distress call: Three armed robbery suspects who robbed and killed a pregnant woman at Damakasa in Apo: three okada riders who alongside others now of large almost lynched a motorist at an accident scene: twelve suspects arrested for cult activities around Zuba: seven okoda riders arrested in connection with the murder of an alleged motorcycle thief in Dutse Makaranta, among other cases. The exhibits recovered include: two locally made pistols, two pump action, nine live cartridges, one dagger, four motorcycles, television sets, etc.” Similarly, the Commissioner expressed concerns over the level of lawless activities perpetrated by motorcycle operators in FCT.He however, announced that the Command will commence a vigorous enforcement of the Ministerial ban that restricts motorcycle operations to satellite towns. “At this juncture, I want to send a stern warning to commercial motorcyclists popularly known as okada riders, that the Command will commence the vigorous enforcement of the Ministerial ban that restricts motorcycle operations to satellite towns. “I also want to reiterate that the Ministerial directive also bans the operation of motorcycles in the Federal Capital City (FCC) and all expressways and highways in the Federal Capital Territory. “Despite the subsisting Ministerial directive, okada riders still flagrantly extend their operations to the expressways and highways, especially around Lugbe, Kubwa, Deidei, Karu, and Nyanya axis.” He noted that the illegally extension of their operations to expressway violate the Traffic rules, thus, causing avoidable accidents.