President of the
Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, ECCIMA, Sir Emeka
Nwandu has said that in spite of the spread of the deadly Coronavirus ravaging
the globe that foreign countries have indicated interest to take part in the
forthcoming 31st Enugu International Trade Fair billed for March 13 to
culminate on March 23, 2020. Nwandu who
stated this while addressing the press on the forthcoming Fair in Enugu added
that the chamber has taken precautionary measures to forestall any eventuality
at the Fair. “We have made arraignments to station sensors
to check temperatures of every participant at the point of entry. “The
ministry of health will also be on the ground to screen participants”, he said. He said that, “India, Japan and China, have indicated interest to participate in the Fair. My constituents still under herdsmen attack – Rep. “Chinese
nationals, in particular, would be represented by their representatives in
Nigeria”, he said. The President
also explained that the closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu
would not affect the forthcoming 31st Enugu International Trade Fair billed for
March 13 to culminate on March 23, 2020. He said those
desirous to come to the fair by air could use the Imo Airport or the Asaba
Airport in Delta State, pointing out however that work was ongoing at the
repair of the Enugu Airport that had been closed down for repairs since last
year as a result of poor facilities. “The
closure of Enugu Airport may not affect the 31st Enugu International Trade Fair
because participants can come from Owerri or Asaba Airport to the Fair.” Nwandu seized
the opportunity to call on the Federal Government to fully develop Enugu
International Trade Fair Complex so that it would be conducive like the Kaduna
and the Lagos trade fair complexes. Nwandu who
briefed journalists in Enugu on Wednesday on their preparation for the
International trade fair, with a theme, “Advancing the Growth of SMEs
through Corporate Governance for Rapid Development”