Zenith General Insurance Company Limited (commonly known as Zenith Insurance) has, in a trailblazing move, partnered with Telecommunications giant – MTN Nigeria to provide the first-ever mobile insurance service in Nigeria. Using the USSD code *5966#, customers
can now buy Third Party Motor Insurance and Personal Accident Insurance on the
go, on their mobile phones, whether or not they have access to the internet. It
is the dawn of a new era in the Nigerian insurance industry, and Zenith
Insurance is at the forefront. Speaking at the launch of the product at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos on Wednesday, March 18, 2020, the Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue, said, “Financial Inclusion is imperative for economic development and access to insurance is a key component of this. MTN is glad to be the enabling platform for the delivery of digital insurance through mobile phones. We congratulate, Zenith General Insurance and Prudential Zenith Life Insurance for courageously blazing a trail.” ICPC to commence tracking, monitoring constituency projects in Jigawa According to Kehinde Borisade, Chief
Executive Officer of Zenith Insurance, “There are a lot of misconceptions
around the concept of Insurance especially in developing nations such as ours.
We at Zenith Insurance are committed to dispelling those notions of insurance
being an abstract concept sold by weary old men in dusty shoes, who are nowhere
to be found, the minute you have a claim. “We are bringing Insurance to the
fingertips of the ordinary Nigerian who is looking for convenience in his day
to day dealings, as well as speed in service delivery. The USSD platform is
something that anyone, anywhere, as long as they have a mobile phone can have
access to. You don’t even need to have a data plan.” Presently, customers have the
opportunity to purchase mandatory Third-Party Motor Insurance- to cover against
damages to other motorists and their vehicles and Personal Accident Insurance-
a policy that provides purchasers and their loved ones with the assurance that
should they suffer any injury that results in disablement or death, they will
be compensated financially for treatment, hospitalization, time out of work or
permanent disability. Within two minutes, anyone anywhere in Nigeria can have
an Insurance policy.

This novel development will
revolutionise the way insurance works in Nigeria. Life just got better,
Insurance just got better. Welcome to the EazyLife!