Nigerian businesses need to prepare and brace themselves for a highly challenging period ahead as the Coronavirus pandemic disrupts day-to-day life and commerce. This follows the Federal and State Governments’ recent
announcements of a set of bold measures to halt the spread of the Coronavirus
in Nigeria, including travel bans, school closures and limits to the size of
public gatherings. “While these actions are necessary and commendable, they are steering businesses into uncharted territory,” says Dr Demola Sogunle, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC. “The operating environment, already difficult following years of lacklustre growth will become even more challenging in the weeks ahead.” As this health and economic crisis unfold, large
organisations will have to contend with the challenge of managing complex
operations across multiple entities and geographies – each with its own set of
measures in place to tackle the pandemic. “There is now a pressing need for effective risk
mitigation and business continuity measures and these must include partner
firms, suppliers and other stakeholders,” says Dr.Sogunle. In numerous industries, supply chains and cash flows
are being severely disrupted, particularly for those businesses involved in
cross-border trade. This makes planning more crucial than ever. With this in mind, organisations should consider the
early loading and planning of payments, as well as intensive cash-flow
management and liquidity planning. Those businesses that have lending facilities
in place should assess whether these can cope with changed or disrupted cash
flows. Also, businesses involved in cross-border trade can
consider measures that reduce the impact on cash flows. Letters of credit, for
instance, have a lesser impact on cash flows than upfront deposits. And the
disruption of physical trade flows might require an alignment of the associated
cash flows. Meanwhile, the health and safety of employees,
clients, and other stakeholders need to be top of mind. Companies should consider
separating teams and allowing employees to work remotely, where possible,
although the persistence of load-shedding does complicate remote work. As more employees work from home, connectivity will be
key. To enable this, teams could be provided with larger data bundles and
afforded remote and secure access to internal systems. And with employees
working in new environments, communication will be crucial to ensure that staff
are well-informed and reassured, as well as productive. Comprehensive policies and protocols applicable to
both staff and clients are essential. Naturally, hygiene within the workplace
and externally is of paramount importance – access to hand sanitizers, for
instance, could prevent the spread of the virus. “It is extremely important that companies remain calm
and keep working effectively. Stanbic IBTCrecognises that it has a
responsibility to do everything it can to help clients keep their businesses
and their lives on track”, Dr.Sogunle says.