The Lagos State Government on Saturday banned all religious and social gatherings above 20 persons in the state with immediate effect this came as the   Federal Government had confirmed 10 new cases of Coronavirus (COVID-19)  in Nigeria. The Lagos state government on its Twitter handle said that the: “The Lagos State Government has banned all religious and social gathering of over 20 people within the State,” It also said that “It is important we all adhere to this directive.”  Public Service Announcement @jidesanwoolu @drobafemihamzat @gbenga_omo@ProfAkinAbayomi @LSMOH #LASG #COVID19Lagos pic.twitter.com/vBzptxyUM0 Recalled that on Wednesday the government suspended all religious gatherings above 50 persons in the state for the next four weeks with immediate effect. The Commissioner for Home Affairs, Prince Olanrewaju Elegushi, announced this to newsmen in Ikeja after a closed door meeting with religious leaders in the state on the issue of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). Breaking: FG confirms 22 cases of Coronavirus in Nigeria Elegushi said that the decision was taken in the interest of Lagosians and necessary toward curbing the spread of the ravaging coronavirus. ”We met with religious leaders both Christians and Muslims. We discussed, argued and realised that the lives of Lagosians is important to us. We prefer to offend people than to kill our people. ”Let me assure you that the state government is not insensitive to the Lenten period and various religious activities going on. We are concerned because it is only the living that can worship God. ”Having discussed extensively, the heads of religious bodies agreed government should embark on massive education of the virus at the grassroots level. ”Health workers should up their games, while more should be recruited and hospitals should be compelled to attend to people without prejudice. But today the  Federal Government had confirmed 10 new cases of Coronavirus (COVID-19) as it imposes measures to fight the outbreak. The measures include a tighter lockdown that closed all borders and banned all incoming and outgoing flights in the country. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, disclosed this in a statement signed by him, on Saturday in Abuja. Ehanire said that out of the 10 new cases, three were from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja while seven were from Lagos State,  adding that this brought  the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria to 22. “All 10 new cases are Nigerian nationals; nine of them have travel history to Canada, France, Netherlands, Spain and United Kingdom. “They returned to the country in the past one week; the 10th case is a close contact of a previously confirmed case. “The three cases in the FCT are being treated at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada, while the seven new cases in Lagos are being treated at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) Yaba,” he explained. The minister said that all 10 new cases had mild to moderate symptoms and were  currently receiving treatment. “As at March 21, 2020, a total of 22 cases have been confirmed, two cases have been discharged and there has been no death from COVID-19 in Nigeria,” he said. He stated that the federal government  remained  committed to working with states to provide optimal care for all confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country. He noted that contact tracing was ongoing to identify all persons who had been in contact with the new confirmed cases.