The Senator representing Osun Central of Osun State in the
National Assembly, Dr Surajueen Ajibola has attributed the persistence of
electoral malfeasance in Nigeria to weak or absence of legal institution to
deal with the prosecution of violators of electoral processes. Senator Abibola added that the Electoral Act does not have adequate provisions to combat electoral frauds, saying that it has shallow mechanism for enforcement by vesting on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) the responsibilities of prosecuting electoral offences. Ondo ex-deputy governor, supporters decamp to APC The Senator said this yesterday in Ilorin at the public
lecture organised by the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of
Journalists (NUJ), Kwara State Council. The lecture was entitled ‘democracy and the rule of law.’ The Senator who is also a lawyer said: “It is surprising to
note that in spite of the degree of illegal activities that have charactersised
Nigeria’s elections, the perpetrators and beneficiaries of these illegal acts
are hardly investigated, prosecuted and punished for their crime, even though
there are reasonable grounds to prosecute them. “Non-investigation and prosecution of election-related
offences further promote the impunity within the electoral process. The reasons
for the non-investigation and prosecution of perpetrators of electoral offences
are not far-fetched. .. “To start with, the nature of the Nigerian state supports
electoral manipulation and this explains the intensive and persistent struggle
to control and exploit the offices of the state.” The lawmaker also lamented the deteriorating security
situation in the country, noting that “today Nigerians live in absolute
suspicion and constant feeling of an impending disaster. “As a result, most economic activities have come to a halt
and private businesses are crippling because of the pervading hostile
environment and destruction of infrastructure. “Aside the social tension and displacement of people, the
heightened hostility between the various groups, particularly on ethnic and religious
lines poses a serious threat to the unity and peaceful coexistence of the country. “While every country has her fair share of security
challenges, since May 29th, 1999 when the current democratic dispensation
began, there seems to be a deterioration in the security situation in Nigeria. “The activities of
armed robbers, ethnic and religious crisis, the insurgency (Boko Haram) in the
North East, militancy in the Niger Delta, spate of kidnappings in major cities
and roads, ritual killings and other violent crimes, show the precarious
security situation in Nigeria.”