Most
Nigerians were shocked to hear recently that lecturers across the nation’s public
tertiary institutions were diverting research grants made available to them by
the Tertiary Education Fund (TETFund) to build homes, purchase cars, and engage
in other frivolous activities. TETFund, which made the allegation through its director of research and development, Salihu Bakari, said huge sums of money made available to the individual lecturers, and sometimes their teams for research exercises, conference attendance, among others, are usually misappropriated. Mama Boko Haram, 2 others awarded contract of N65m to supply beans to my company, Witness alleges Consequently,
TETFund said it has suspended forthwith sponsorship of conference attendance
for lecturers in the country’s tertiary institutions. According to
source within the agency, who is a member of the governing board of TETFund, the
decision to suspend the sponsorship of conference attendance for lecturers is
part of efforts towards sanitising the country’s academic system. He said the
governing board, presently headed in acting capacity by the executive secretary
of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof Abubakar Rasheed, met recently
to review the 2019 activities of TETFund. “The
agency’s activities were reviewed at the meeting, and more importantly was the
sponsorship of the lecturers’ conference attendance. Quite unfortunately, more
than 50 per cent of lecturers’ sponsored by TETFund for both local and foreign
conferences did not attend the conferences but pocketed the money,” he said. The source further
disclosed that the agency was considering various options towards dealing with
the challenge of abuse of funds by the beneficiaries. The source
added; “Just like foreign grants, there are lots of measures put in place to
guide the disbursement of TETFund grants, but sometimes some either abscond
after receiving first tranche or they change institutions without informing
appropriate authorities”. While we strongly
condemn the alleged diversion of research grants and welcome the decision by
TETFund to suspend sponsorship of conference attendance for lecturers, we would
like to see further punitive actions taken against lecturers proven to have
abused the privilege. We believe that TETFund should go beyond
suspension of sponsorship of conference attendance for lecturers to identify
who among them diverted funds given him/her for research purposes to other
things. Such persons should be sanctioned in line with extant laws, including
refund of the disbursed amount to serve as deterrent. We are of the opinion
that public funds should be used for the purposes they are meant for. We recommend the setting up of a high powered and
above board team to regularly monitor all research funds to lecturers whose
mandates among others should include nipping in the bud any likelihood of
diversion of such funds. Finally, we appeal to beneficiary lecturers to
stick to the purposes for which such research grants were awarded them by
TETFund. This way, the organisation will be encouraged to extend such benefits
to others.