The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has urged its members to sustain ongoing operations and scale up production of essential commodities needed to curtail the spread of COVID-19. In a statement by its President, Mansur Ahmed, MAN applauded
the efforts of government since the nation recorded its first case in February. He said it was imperative for stringent actions to be taken
by the world and indeed, the nation to help its citizens adjust and cope with
the pandemic. “As the voice of manufacturers’ interest in Nigeria, the
Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) recognizes the efforts of government
from the point Nigeria recorded its first case. “It is also comforting to note that the National Centre for
Disease Control (NCDC) are not resting on their oars through drafting of  the different protocols for safety
disseminated to the general public all in a bid to ensure the safety of
citizens,” he said. Ahmed advised members to adequately sensitize and educate
workers on compliance with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)
guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus. He also urged that members provide requisite facilities and
supplies for the prevention of COVID-19 in line with extant guidelines of the
NCDC. “Given the fundamental role manufacturers will be playing at
a time like this, they have been encouraged to sustain ongoing operations to
avoid reduction or shut down of production activities. “They should also scale up their production especially of
essential commodities such pharmaceuticals, consumables, sanitary and hygiene
products needed to curtail the spread of the virus (COVID-19),” he said. The MAN president also appealed to the government to provide
safety nets to ensure seamless operations as manufacturers adhere to safety
rules to keep the economy running. He urged that government ensured reasonable access to
industrial supplies and inputs such as gas, electricity supply, fuel and other
essential infrastructure needs. He also advocated that the financial support offered by
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) be extended to the supply of forex to the
manufacturing sector at pre-COVID-19 rates. Ahmed urged the CBN to consider directing commercial banks
to freeze interest charges in the event of a lock down. “In the case of an eventual lockdown, government should
consider the introduction of fiscal measures such as waivers on import duties
on Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs), and other essential products. “Also, they should extend tax holiday to companies on
corporate tax, and waive the Value Added Tax (VAT); and reduce the burden of
personal income tax as a way of increasing the disposable income of an average
Nigerian worker. “Government should ensure its agencies do not act contrary
to its directive of permitting essential manufacturing sectors to operate. “For emphasis, we would enjoin the general public to take
seriously the protective measure of regular hand washing with soap and water or
use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, practice of good personal hygiene;
maintenance of social distancing. “We also advice that members sufficiently stay abreast of
additional directives from the National Centre for Disease Control and World
Health Organisation,” he said.