…Expresses concern over slow pace of work at Lagos Isolation, Testing Centre As the cases of the rampaging Coronavirus continues ravage
the world, including Nigeria, the chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Deji Doherty has written a second open
letter to the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu intimating him about what
more needs to be done to arrest a further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in
the state. In the letter which is the second on the same subject matter in two weeks, the PDP helmsman noted out some of his observations during his visit to the Isolation Test Centre in the state, pointing out what he believes needed to be done to achieve a better result. READ ALSO:  Kashamu asks Supreme Court to stop his extradition to US Doherty in the letter said it had become necessary for him
to write the again so that he can further throw more light on his observations
to the governor in his earlier communication. The letter reads in part, “You will recall that I did write
you an open letter after my visit to the Lagos state centre for disease control
last week. In that letter, I expressed my concern for the lack of preparedness in
the isolation and testing centre and the slow pace of work. It will be an
understatement to say that I was disappointed by what I saw. “In that letter, I called on subject matter experts and
experienced citizens to come together and help fight this coronavirus pandemic.
As part of this clarion call, I have decided to make the more detailed
observation about the centre available to you. It is my hope and intention that
this will help you in making critical decisions that will help us fight this
pandemic to a standstill. “Mr Governor, there are an approximate 20 million citizens
in our dear state, this is huge compared to other states who have a lot more
land mass, our state of preparedness must be on point. We have no room for
error.” Talking about his observation at the visit, Doherty said, “Firstly,
I noticed that light construction and refurbishing was going on, but at a very
slow, snail speed, like we had all the time in the world. “I was also disappointed that I had to wait for close to two
hours before I could be tested. This shouldn’t be the case as we should be
ready to test at least 10 patients at a time if necessary. “Furthermore, I noticed that most of the doctors on duty
were not protected, in fact it was as if they were not in a highly infectious
zone. This gave me great cause for concern. It is not only unsafe, it is
unacceptable. What would happen if the people who are care givers become ill?
It would mean that there would be no one to treat the sick. “Just as worrying is knowing that we do not have an adequate
supply of ventilators, test kits, protective gear, personnel, medicines and
research and test equipment. “Mr Governor, I know you must be under immense pressure, but
I think it is time for you to personally step into this project in order to
fast track the preparedness of the state in dealing with this Pandemic. “I also think you should come out and use the media to
communicate the challenges to the public. Saying that Lagos is ready and able
to deal with this pandemic is untrue. My reasoning is that if you tell people
honestly and openly about these challenges, they will know where the pain hurts
and those who can, will step in and help alleviate some of these challenges. “Finally, I would like to bring to your attention that there
isn’t a reception where infected patients could be received, vital test taken
and biodata received before moving them to the isolation area. “I believe, the state is trying it’s best to contain the
spread of the virus by taking necessary steps, but this should be guided by
transparency and honesty. People will not be able to help the state if you keep
giving them the impression that all is well. “The Peoples Democratic Party is ready to support you in
trying to contain the spread of this virus, we hope that this one week window
that has been created through your announcement of a lockdown will give your
administration and the Ministry of Health adequate time to work round the clock
using a template that will see a real change and precise actions taken , that
will yield desirable outcomes,” he said.