The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has described the trial of the immediate past Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Winnifred Oyo-Ita and the arrest of a former Presidential aide, Okoi Obono-Obla, as positive proofs of the commitment of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to a successful war against corruption. The group said this is contrary to claims by opposition
elements that the Federal Government has only been going after officials of
past Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administrations. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and
Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, BMO said it was a clear message to anyone with
corruption tendencies, regardless of political affiliation. “Nigerians have over the years seen how PDP elements have sought to rubbish the anti-graft credentials of President Buhari and his administration by selling a false impression of selective prosecution to the unsuspecting public. Coronavirus: Ondo electoral commission insists on April 18 LG poll “But yet again, this government is showing that it
would not tolerate corrupt practices on its watch so soon after the trial of
the Former Secretary to Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal began over
a N500m Grass-cutting scandal. “Now, another one-time senior official of the Buhari
administration, Mrs. Oyo-Ita, is before a Federal High Court in Abuja to answer
for her alleged indiscretion, even though some of the allegations stemmed from
her previous roles as Director and Permanent Secretary in the Federal Civil
Service before her appointment as Head of Service. “She is on trial for fraud alongside her Special
Assistant, Ubong Okon Effiok and some companies, in which she is believed to
have interests, in relation to Duty Tour Allowances, (DTA), Estacodes, and
conference fees’ fraud, as well as receiving kickbacks from contractors of
various ministries and parastatals where she worked. “And even though Oyo-Ita’s trial has only just opened
in court, the fact that Nigeria’s immediate past foremost civil servant is in
the dock is proof that this President is not only interested in the reckless
past of the PDP era, but also in acts of corruption that may have been
perpetrated under his watch,” it added. BMO also spoke about the recent arrest of the suspended chairman
of the Special Investigation Panel on Recovery of Public Property (SPIP) Okoi
Obono-Obla, five months after he was declared wanted by the Independent Corrupt
Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). “Here is one man that described himself as a loyalist
of President Buhari and even claimed at a point that he was being persecuted
for his loyalty to the President’s cause. “But this didn’t stop the ICPC from declaring Obla
wanted when he failed to make himself available to clear himself of allegations
of ‘falsification of records and financial impropriety’ contained in a letter
of suspension dated August 14, 2019, and signed by Secretary to Government of
the Federation, Boss Mustapha. “This is by all accounts an unprecedented move, especially
as certain elements had claimed that the government was playing to the gallery
by declaring the former Presidential aide wanted when it could have taken him
in. “Incidentally since his arrest by anti-graft officials
last Friday, the naysayers have been quiet, but we are sure that like others
before him, Mr. Obono-Obla will have his day in court especially as he had once
claimed from hiding, that he was never given an opportunity to be heard.” The Buhari group consequently urged Nigerians to disregard
all allegations of skewed or lop-sided prosecution of corruption cases by the
Buhari administration.