Nigerian artiste 2face Idibia has had one of the most successful careers if not the most successful of all time in Nigeria. Spanning more than a decade with 6 albums, numerous awards and international recognition, there’s a lot to learn and gain from his career. Especially for the upcoming new generation artist, who tend to raise shoulders and haven’t gotten “there” yet. We decided to highlight something you can all learn from 2face Idibia.  Mutiat Alli writes about the talent 1- Stay humble One thing 2face is known for is his being humble. Most people who meet him are struck by how personable and “real” he is, despite the fame and success. Just recently, he was spotted at the airport without body guards or escorts or entourage. He was alone and of course dressed moderately. Unlike most artists we tend to see around, who carry their “crew” around and make a hell of a noise when they arrive. Don’t get me wrong, tagging along with your crew is not in any way a bad thing. It just becomes bad when you guys become nuisances. The lesson is here is, never let your success gets to your head for it will make you do stupid things. Even the bible states, God exalts the humble and he hates the proud. So stay humble. Stay hungry. Stay focused. 2- Be versatile The downfall of many artistes is producing a hit track. This leads some to believe that they have to repeat the formula over and over again, quickly producing monotonous music. Over the years, 2face has experimented with different genres and song themes, constantly pushing himself to try out new genres of music. From the 1994s, he started out with rap and through the years, he gradually moved into his singing proper. And with each passing year, 2face drops hit after hit. Unlike many of our artists, who tend to drop one hit song and want to continue with the same formula and patter as the previous, it doesn’t really turn out well. A true artiste will constantly seek new and creative ways of expressing themselves through their music to their audiences and fan bases. If you focus on one type of genre as an artiste, you will force yourself to have only one type of audience. But if you become versatile, you definitely pull a larger audience. So, be versatile. 3- Create music with depth Pop music definitely has its place; but to build a great career, you need songs that connect to people and the realities they face. Songs that make people dance are here today and gone tomorrow. Songs that make people feel last so much longer. 9 out of 2face’s songs are heart felt and not just dance songs. Music generally has a recipe that has to do with the artiste being natural and being able to communicate to the people; what you’re feeling, what they are feeling, what you are seeing, what they are seeing and what you think about an issue or a thing or a person. It shouldn’t just be classic noise or arranged noise. Classic noise being that nobody relates to it. Arranged noise being that people relate to it quite alright, but then it doesn’t come to stay, it fades almost immediately. 2Face, already got that recipe ever since he came into the lime light. His songs are still hot as though they were just released. They still find a way into the hearts of people and warm them up. He knows how to make music with depth. 4- Have a selfless heart No matter the level of success you achieve, making a positive difference in people’s lives will open doors for you. Find a cause or charity you genuinely have interest in, and help make people’s lives better. 2face is constantly working to give back to society. He’s campaigned for Violence free elections, Malaria free Nigeria and contributed immensely to orphans and the underprivileged. He has also been responsible for sponsoring some children to school. He gives back to the society. A Nigerian proverb says ‘it takes a village to raise a child’. The city has raised 2face and has made him a legend. Now this legend remembers his roots and he always comes back to water these same roots from which he draws his strength from. 5-   Have a great team A saying goes thus- Nobody is an island. So obviously, nobody can handle everything all by him/herself. You’re going to need people in your journey to help you create the perfect brand and maximize opportunities. If you make the mistake of ever thinking that you do not need anybody, that is when pride kicks in and that, my friend, is the beginning of the downfall of your career. You should be able to surround yourself with good people who want you to win and who will also help you win. 2face has a great team who handle his PR and marketing strategy. This way, they are able to penetrate the market and deliver on time. Its important to have a great team behind you, no matter the career you are into. It pays.