The Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Investment in collaboration with the National Automotive
Design and Development Council (NADDC) has commissioned $1 billion worth of
locally-assembled vehicles. The vehicles are locally produced by 17 companies including Coscharis, Nissan, Innoson, Ford and Elizade Motors among others, that are pioneering made-in-Nigeria vehicles NAF destroys ISWAP hideout in Mina, Borno The Minister of
Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, while commissioning the
Nigeria-produced and assembled vehicles on Monday in Abuja said the vehicles
would also later be used for “2020 Argungu Motor Rally.’’ The first ever
Argungu motor rally will be flagged off by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. Mr Adebayo said
although the rally was an integral part of the Argungu Annual International
Fishing and Cultural Festival, the NADDC had plans to turn it into an annual
event for the local auto industry in Nigeria. He said Nigeria
was moving forward in the area of automotive assembly, adding that from zero
production level in 2012 the industry had recorded tens of thousands of newly
assembled vehicles in the country. He said with the
inauguration of the 10-year Nigerian Automotive Industry Development Plan
(NAIDP 2013-2023) in 2013, about 62 companies have been registered to assemble
vehicles. The minister
noted that the companies were registered to assemble vehicles at both Semi
Knocked Down (SKD) and Completely Knocked Down (CKD) levels with a combined total
installed capacity of 423,790 units. He further said
an actual assemblage of 10,343 units had been achieved so far while 31
automotive assembly companies were currently listed under the Bureau of Public
Procurement for patronage. “The vehicles
and brands for unveiling are a testament to the zeal and commitment of the
automotive industrial subsector to the present government’s efforts towards
diversification of the non-oil sector of the economy. “The role of the
NADDC in reviving and sustaining the automotive sector has greatly helped in
stimulating growth and development in Nigerian automotive industry,’’ he said. He however urged
Nigerians to patronise made-in-Nigeria vehicles to create jobs, build capacity,
drive investment, conserve foreign exchange and transfer technology to the
citizens. In a remark, the
Minister of State for Industry, Trade and investment, Mariam Katagum, charged
the auto companies to do more in the area of local content and have faith in
Federal Government’s commitment to economic diversification. Mrs
 Katagum,
represented by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Nasir Gwarzo, said 
the the unveiling of the vehicles that were also slated to take part in 
the Argungu
Motor Rally showed what the Nigerian automotive industry could offer. NADDC
Director-General, Jelani Aliyu, in a remark said so far about one billion
dollars had been invested by the auto companies whose cars were being unveiled
while 4,700 people were directly employed in the sector.