The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command,  CP Hakeem Odumosu, has stated that a total of 1,182 suspects were arrested by operatives of the command, for armed robbery, kidnapping, murder and other crimes, since he assumed office. Reding a scorecard on the activities of the command in the last 119 days, Odumosu said the command recorded 10 cases of  suicide, while seven suicide attempts were prevented. Mechanic docked for allegedly stealing phone at Igbobi hospital Speaking to journalists at the State Police Command  Headquarters in Ikeja on Thursday,  the commissioner of police also revealed that 34 different firearms with assorted ammunitions, and 22 stolen vehicles were recovered. According to the Lagos Police Boss, 98 armed robbery attempts were foiled by operatives of the command, while 13 suspected robbers lost their lives during gun battle with the police. Odumosu said:  “ In my maiden press briefing, I clearly stated that my mission as Commissioner of Police Lagos State Command is to provide a safer and better secured State that will guarantee the socio-economic well-being of the people, and enhance their quality of life. This is being achieved through mobilization of a more courageous, dedicated, humane and professional police officers in the State. “ I equally rolled out the Command’s 2020 Policing plans which includes: Full implementation of Community based policing policies of the present police authorities, evolving strategies that will close the gaps between the police and the people, foster cordial relationship and build strong and effective partnerships. “ Also, visibility policing and prompt response to distress calls; Intelligence led policing approach, professional and unbiased investigation of criminal cases and diligent prosecution; Respect for and protection of human rights and zero tolerance for corruption; Multi agencies collaboration; Capacity building for Officers and Men of the Command and enhanced welfare package, were also part of the plan. “ I am bold to say that our policing strategies are yielding positive results. Within the last 119 days, the Command arrested 164 armed robbery suspects and successfully foiled 98 armed robbery attempts. 13 armed robbery suspects died during exchange of fire with the Police. 165 suspects were arrested for cultism. “  Four suspects were arrested for kidnapping and 103 suspects were arrested for murder. The state recorded 10 cases of suicide and prevented seven suicide attempts. 34 assorted firearms with lots of ammunition of different calibre were recovered. The Command also recovered 22 stolen vehicles. “ A number of intelligence driven raids were carried out on criminal hideouts, uncompleted and abandoned buildings in different parts of the State. A total of 981 suspects were arrested. Out of this number, 190 were screened out, 791 were charged to Court. 723 suspects were convicted, 25 suspects were discharged, 21 suspects had their cases struck out, and 22 suspects are awaiting trial. ” Giving an update on the enforcement of restriction of motorcycles and tricycles on 48 routes, bridges and express ways in the state, Odumosu said 3,512 motorcycles, popularly known as Okada, and 202 tricycles have so far been impounded. “  I make bold to declare that a total of 3,512 motorcycles and 202 tricycles were impounded since the commencement of the enforcement and 40 suspects were arrested. Twenty five traffic offenders, mostly those driving against traffic (one way) were arrested and successfully prosecuted. ” He further appreciated the support the command had enjoyed from the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, his management team, as well as the Lagos State Government, saying the feat achieved wouldn’t have been possible without their support.