The National President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of
Nigeria (PFN), Rev Dr. Felix Omobude, has called on members of the political
class, particularly leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo
State to settle their differences and give peace a chance. Dr. Omobude who is also the General Superintendent of Gospel Light International Ministries (GLIM) – New Covenant Gospel Church (NCGC) with headquarters in Benin City, capital of Edo State, expressed concerns over the ongoing political crisis rocking the ruling APC in the state. APC Governors sympathise with victims of Abule Ado Explosion He said it was worrisome for the APC leaders in the state to
engage in a political battle without end, noting that power belongs to God and
that all those that seek political positions should do so with the fear of God. In a press statement endorsed by his Media Aide, Deacon
Ralph Okhiria at the weekend in Benin City, a copy made available to our
Correspondent, the national president of PFN, said Edo State is well known for its
peace and urged the political class not to do anything that could set the state
on the path of retrogression. “Politicians should always learn to place the interest
of the people and the state above their political goals because power belongs
to God and He gives it to the person He wishes to give it to. “It’s painful that the two main actors in the ongoing
crisis in the APC (Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki), are
illustrious sons of the state who have contributed immensely to the development
of Edo State. “It is a pity that they both know the right thing to do,
but unfortunately decided to do otherwise. They should learn to forgive each
other and tell their followers to accommodate one another. “They should be told that Edo State belongs to all of
us and that the people need peace to be able to support and vote for them
during elections. “As the governorship election draws near in the state,
all hands must be on deck to ensure a peaceful election that we all can be
proud of,” Dr. Omobude added. Speaking on the National Sports Festival (NSF), tagged Edo
2020, holding in the state from March 22 to April 2, 2020, the PFN leader
congratulated the state government for preparations made so far towards making
the sporting events a huge success. He called on Edo people to be fully prepared to be good
hosts by giving the visiting sports men and women reasons to be happy
throughout the duration of the sports festival.