…As public officers below level 12 to work from home The Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has urged residents
of the state not to panic over the first case of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the
state, assuring that measures have been put in place to curtail its spread. He also announced the prohibition in Edo State till further notice, gathering of more than 50 persons, while declaring that public officers below Grade Level 12, except those providing essential services such as fire and healthcare, should work from home. 2023 Presidency: Southeast begins grassroots mobilization Obaseki briefed reporters on Monday at the Government House,
Benin on the unfortunate development, while insisting that the COVID-19 was not
a death sentence. The first case of Coronavirus in Edo was disclosed less than
24 hours after the Secretary to the Edo State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie,
a lawyer, announced the indefinite closure of all primary and secondary
schools, as well as tertiary institutions, with effect from yesterday. Edo governor said: “Coronavirus is not a death sentence. So,
there is no need to panic. With swift identification, proper management and
care, many persons who were infected with the virus have made full recoveries.
We must all work together and take the right precautions. “I am addressing you today on the Coronavirus pandemic that
has destabilised the economies and social existence of many countries in the
last four months. COVID-19 has finally found its way into our country, Nigeria. “In Edo State, we have developed our action plan to cope
with the pandemic. The postponed National Sports Festival (NSF), Edo 2020, gave
us the opportunity to put in place a contingency plan. We have three isolation
centres in Benin City, Irrua and Auchi, a Federal Government testing centre in
Irrua and a large number of very well-trained and certified workers to trace and
treat patients. “The common signs and symptoms of the Coronavirus infection
include dry cough, fever and difficulty in breathing.” Obaseki also stated that as part of his administration’s
efforts to bring the Coronavirus pandemic to a standstill, various centres had
been designated for the persons who might have contracted the virus, declaring
that social distancing should also be given priority attention. He said: “Since COVID-19 is a virus that is transmitted from
one person to another through close contact, the most effective and proven
remedy to reduce its spread is through social distancing. Social distancing
involves reducing as much as possible physical contacts with others. “Edo State government wishes to advise that from March 23,
2020, every citizen should practice social distancing to prevent the
Coronavirus from spreading. In order to give effect to our social distancing
policy, gathering of more than 50 persons is prohibited in Edo State, till
further notice. “All schools are to remain closed in Edo State, till further
notice. Public transportation will remain in operation, but crowding in
commercial vehicles should be avoided. “All public officers below grade level 12, except those
providing essential services such as fire and healthcare, should work from
home, till further notice. Citizens are advised to postpone unnecessary travels
in and out of Edo State and if possible, stay at home.” The Edo governor also admonished all residents of the state
to report persons who had just returned to the state in the last 30 days from
Europe, Asia, America and other affected countries to the appropriate
authorities, giving details of the persons, including their phone numbers, for
prompt response and interventions, especially to provide screening and any
required support to them, calling 08084096723, 08064258163, 08035835529 and
08074132019. He said: “If you or any relative notice signs and symptoms
of Coronavirus, please report to the nearest designated hospitals in Edo State:
Central Hospital, Edo Specialist Hospital, Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Irrua
Specialist Teaching Hospital, University of Benin Teaching Hospital and Auchi
General Hospital, for monitoring, possible testing and treatment for better
chances of recovery,” he said.