Helicopter services giant, Calverton, has signed the factory
acceptance deal for the manufacture of the AW139 Reality H Full-Flight simulator
with Thales. The agreement was sealed in Cergy, France, last week Thursday
and first of its kind to be installed in Africa. This is coming less than one year after the contract signature and before its departure to its ultra-modern Caverton Aviation Training Center in Nigeria. China Southern Airlines set to resume Shenzhen-Bangkok route The Thales Reality H Full Flight Simulator level ‘D’, which is
one of the world’s most advanced commercial helicopter simulator, will be used
to provide superior scenario-based flight and mission training to AW139
helicopter operators across the African continent as well as Caverton’s pilots
and crew. With this simulator, Caverton will deliver state-of-the-art training:
including Initial Type Rating, Recurrent Training and Proficiency Checks for
both Visual Flight Rules (VFR) and Instrument Flight Rules (IFR), offshore and
onshore missions as well as VIP operations to unprepared landing sites. This simulator will enable pilots to become certified to fly the
AW139 under various Civil aviation Authority approvals. It will be one of the
most popular helicopter platforms in Nigeria and in the region to be fully
immersed in a realistic virtual environment representing Nigerian operational
locations and learn to handle a multitude of system failures and overcome very
complex malfunctions should they arise in the real world. Pilots can thus train safely in high-risk mission scenarios in
a range of adverse weather conditions. Caverton is a leading indigenous aviation and marine logistics
player for the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The company aims to provide an
accessible platform for advanced training and create opportunities for
the sector in Africa. This move is a major step forward in Caverton’s strategy
to diversify its portfolio of services to include flight simulation training
services and thereby support safer helicopter logistics operations. Managing
 Director Caverton Helicopters Ltd, Rotimi Makanjuola
said, “This is an important milestone, not just for Caverton as an 
indigenous the company, but for Nigeria and the African continent. We 
pride ourselves in being
pioneers in safety innovation and are committed to providing enhanced 
training
opportunities for our pilots’ in-country as well as to third party 
operators
across Africa. With this significant investment and with the support 
from
Thales, a globally renowned company, we believe that the simulator will
ultimately benefit our customers and increase accessibility to 
world-class
flight simulation training services.” Vice President of Training & Simulation business of
Thales, Peter Hitchcock, said: “We are very proud to share a trusted
relationship with Caverton and we are committed to helping the company improving
flight safety across the region thanks to the first helicopter full flight
simulator to be installed in Africa.”