Faced with a growing 
economic shutdown from the coronavirus pandemic, the US Federal Reserve 
on Sunday announced drastic emergency measures to shore up confidence 
and keep the financial sector running, including slashing the key 
interest rate to virtually zero. The Fed made its second emergency  rate cut in less than two weeks, cutting the benchmark borrowing rate  to a range of 0-0.25 percent, where it was during the 2008 global  financial crisis, and pledged to keep it there “until it is confident  that the economy has weathered recent events.” Taiwan’s Tai wins All England Championship title The central bank also announced massive asset purchases, 
opened its discount-lending windows to banks and urged them to use it to
 help businesses and households. In another move, it removed bank reserve requirements to allow them to use cash backstops. The
 Fed joined forces with other major central banks to guarantee the 
global financial system has enough cash to continue to operate. The
 action was coordinated with the European Central Bank, Bank of England,
 Bank of Japan, Bank of Canada and the Swiss National Bank. President
 Donald Trump, who in the past has repeatedly berated the independent 
central bank for not acting more aggressively, praised the moves. “What’s happened with the Fed is phenomenal news,” Trump said at a regular briefing of his coronavirus task force. “It’s
 a tremendous thing that took place just now,” he said. “I can tell you,
 I’m very happy. I didn’t expect this. And I like being surprised.” The
 massive show of financial force, coming as more countries are on 
lockdown due to the spread of the COVID-19 illness, aims to contain the 
economic fallout as businesses are forced to shut their doors in an 
already sluggish global economy. “The swap lines are available 
standing facilities and serve as an important liquidity backstop to ease
 strains in global funding markets,” a joint statement from the central 
banks said. The Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market 
Committee, following its emergency meeting, said that “the coronavirus 
outbreak has harmed communities and disrupted economic activity in many 
countries, including the United States.” The committee, which had 
been due to hold a regularly-scheduled two-day meeting starting Tuesday,
 vowed to “use its tools and act as appropriate to support the economy,”
 though what tools it has left is a question. One FOMC member 
dissented from the vote. Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester objected
 only to the move to take the federal funds rate nearly to zero. – ‘Time is of the essence’ – In
 the wake of the global financial crisis, the bank regulators including 
the Fed had required lending institutions to build up a large cash 
buffer in case of another emergency, so they would not require a 
government bailout. The Fed decision on Sunday unleashed those 
reserves so bank can help support families and businesses, with more 
than $4 trillion at their disposal. “This action eliminates 
reserve requirements for thousands of depository institutions and will 
help to support lending to households and businesses,” the Fed said. And
 it encouraged banks to make use of low-cost short-term loans from the 
central bank, saying “depository institutions may borrow from the 
discount window for periods as long as 90 days, prepayable and renewable
 by the borrower on a daily basis.” In addition it will resume the
 “quantitative easing” policy used during the last crisis that involves 
buying debt to keep money flowing through the economy. The Fed will in 
coming months buy $500 billion in US Treasury debt and $200 billion in 
mortgage-backed securities.