The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has announced plans to promote increased local content in the production of electrical materials, personnel and facilitate the export of certified made in Nigeria products. This indication was given during a courtesy visit of the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI)/Nigerian Content Consultative Forum (NCCF) delegation to the SON Operational Headquarters, Lekki, Lagos. READ ALSO:  Low-key Olympic Flame handover; three more F1 races postponed Leader of the delegation, Engr. A.B. Mohammed, General Manager Engineering Performance and Monitoring of the NERC commended SON for its past collaboration which engendered the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the two organisations in 2015 as well as SON’s membership of the NESI-NCCF. Mohammed disclosed that the body of experts from the industry constituted by the NCCF to advise the NERC on carrying out its duties had worked assiduously to compile a publication titled: Regulation on National Content Development for the Power Sector (Schedules to the Regulation), providing the benchmark and threshold for the electricity industry in Nigeria. In his remarks, Chairman of the NERC/NCCF, Henry Okolo acknowledged the role of SON in warehousing standards for the nation, stressing the need for improved collaboration in the electricity sector to enhance local content as well as promote export of made-in-Nigeria products and personnel. Okolo stated that the forum is not unmindful of some agents and vendors resisting the total achievement of local content in the industry despite the signing of the presidential executive order No.5 of 2015, as a government policy to that effect. He urged SON to intensify its technical support to local industries and interested parties through the application of international standards in the electrical sector as a means of sustaining the local industry and building greater capacity. Okolo advised SON to consider setting up a Nigerian content desk to handle matters directly impacting on standards as relating to local content in the power sector. Responding on behalf of the Director-General, SON, Osita Aboloma Esq. Director in the DG’s Office, Mr. Kabir Yusuf highlighted SON’s core mandate as including the development of standards, factory inspections, testing, offshore and local conformity assessment of products, certification of management systems amongst others.