Nollywood actress, Omowunmi Dada is one of the few actress whose acting prowess is second to none; having featured in countless movies, soaps and stage plays; the theatre art graduate from the University of Lagos is not resting on her oars. In this chat with MUTIAT ALLI, Omowunmi spoke about her career, challenges, why even marriage can’t stop her from acting amongst others. As an actor, what do you look out for movie production? For me as a trained actor, one of the key things that draw me into a movie production will definitely be the story line as I try as much as possible to figure out those who will learn from it rather than just been entertained alone.  A good storyline will attract more audience to a production and make production seamless. So what kind of story turns you down? That will be if I don’t believe in the character they want me to play; most time it does not really have to be a lead character, it could be a very minor character but very informative. Like I always say that no character is small because it could be that small role that will change the whole story around. I look at the script and if the character is believable and not just for the fun of it, I take up the challenge. As leading brand, what do you stand for in the industry? I stand strongly for professionalism, quality, discipline, integrity and consistency because at every particular time; keep working as nobody wants to work with a lazy actor Is nudity a no go area for you? Well, it depends on how the nudity is being created. You can create nudity in a very creative way and it will be tastefully done; also what is the essence of that nudity. Again it’s not just like I want to show my sexy body for example, you want to act a rape victim scene, there is no way that it would be played and dress won’t be ripped. Well it’s really not bad to be naked. If you are to advice a younger version of yourself, what advice will you give? Oh! What I will tell the younger Omowunmi is first thing first, do not ever forget what you are made of, life would be hard but you have to find inner strength to go on, girl!! Everything you need to survive life with is in you and God’s hands; it’s been deposited in by God. It’s okay to be you but know one thing you are destined to be great and you will great and nothing anybody will do or say that will drag you back and I will just whisper to her that Omowunmi Dada just know that you are a star and you are going to change the world. Which movie will you say shot you to limelight? Well for me, the first time I was on TV was as a presenter in a Nigeria reality show for kids  in 2008 but my first movie was an epic movie titled ‘ Oya’. I have featured in countless movies and soaps  but the truth is so many people are yet to know me, and that the truth that’s why I need to constantly give my best to all I do should in case anyone stumbles on me and be like awwww who is this person but sincerely I can’t pick on one exactly. But for every job I have done, I feel so honoured to do them all. Which are you more comfortable doing, TV presenting or acting? For me I am an all round act; I can do any of the two perfectly. Don’t you think marriage can stop you from acting? Hell No!!! Not even marriage can stop me from acting because I want to be old with all my gray hairs acting because this is what I am born to do. It gives 100% fulfillment.