Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent an open letter to the Senate President Dr Ahmad Lawan, urging him to use his leadership position to “ensure that the bill that would allow ‘repentant Boko Haram terrorists’ opportunities to access public funds to enjoy foreign education is immediately dropped, and to sponsor bills that would ensure access to justice and reparation for the victims of Boko Haram terrorist group.” According to SERAP, “the bill, which has passed the first reading at the
Senate would give opportunities to ‘repentant terrorists’ to receive foreign
education including by accessing funds from the Universal Basic Education
Commission, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund and subventions from the
government.” In the letter dated 28 February 2020 and signed by SERAP deputy director
Kolawole Oluwadare, the organization said: “This bill erodes justice and makes
a mockery of the suffering of victims, and the unspeakable human tragedy, humanitarian
crisis and appalling atrocities committed by the Boko Haram terrorist group.” SERAP said: “By calling Boko Haram members ‘ex-agitators’, the bill mocks
the victims of appalling atrocities committed by the terrorist group, and is a
blatant affront to victims’ dignity. ‘Repentant Boko Haram terrorists’ are not ‘ex-agitators’;
they are terrorists under Nigerian and international laws.” According to SERAP: “Boko Haram members should not be allowed to enjoy
foreign education while over 13 million Nigerian children of school age are
roaming our streets. Alleged perpetrators of gross violations should not get the benefits at the expense of these and other deserving children.
Rather than allowing perpetrators to access public funds to enjoy foreign
education, the Senate should be promoting reparation for victims, to prevent
future criminality and ensure the best interest of justice.” SERAP also said: “Should the Senate go ahead to pass the bill, and should the bill be supported by the House of Representatives and assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Registered Trustees of SERAP shall take all appropriate legal actions nationally and internationally to challenge the legality of any such law and ensure that it is never implemented.” Senator Abba Moro, Huriwa condemn attack on journalist in Abuja The letter read, in part: “Prioritising the education of Boko Haram
members over the rights of Nigerian children to quality education is
discriminatory, as it violates Nigerian constitutional provisions, international
and regional human rights obligations, and will undermine national development.” “This bill serves neither justice nor the public interest. The bill also
does not represent value for money for Nigerian taxpayers, especially coming
from an institution whose individual member reportedly takes home about N182
million yearly, translating to N15.1 million monthly or N45.3 million quarterly.” “Internally displaced persons (IDP) camps in many parts of the country
are in shambles, with people lacking access to basic necessities like food,
clothing and children of victims lacking access to basic education.” “Without justice, the seeds of future criminality and militant terrorism
will grow. This bill, if passed, would only lead to more terrorism and suffering.” “The Senate should focus on passing bills that would ensure access of
victims to effective remedies including adequate reparation, and effective
prosecution of ‘repentant Boko Haram members’ rather than rewarding them with opportunities
to study abroad.” “Prioritising alleged perpetrators’ rights at the expense of the
victims’ rights, interests and needs is discriminatory, illegal and
unconstitutional, as it amounts to ‘re-victimisation’. While the alleged
‘repentant Boko Haram terrorists have the right to an impartial and fair trial,
they have absolutely no right to enjoy foreign education.” “Pursuing accountability of perpetrators would also show that Nigerian
authorities will take action against those who commit gross human rights
violations against their own people.” “In proposing bills to respond to the atrocities committed by the Boko
Haram terrorist group, the Senate should ensure strict adherence to the 1999
Nigerian Constitution (as amended) and Nigeria’s international human rights obligations
and commitments, including the 1985 United Nations Declaration of the Basic
Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power, which provides
for the basic standards for victims treatment.” “The Boko Haram terrorist group has committed numerous human rights
atrocities against the Nigerian people. By prioritising prosecution of alleged
perpetrators, the Nigerian authorities will be sending a powerful message to
the victims and the international community that atrocities committed by the
terrorist group will not be ignored.” “According to our information, the proposed bill aims to establish a “National
Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De-radicalisation and Integration of
Repentant Insurgents in Nigeria.” The agency will get its funding from the
Universal Basic Education Commission, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund and
annual subventions from the government.” “Section 5(m) of the bill gives ‘repentant terrorists’ the opportunity
of receiving foreign education, by among others accessing the services of
offshore and Nigerian institutions in the pursuit of the educational needs of
ex-agitators.” Under the bill, one per cent of TETFund and UBEC fund will be
used in funding the agency for rehabilitating the terrorists. The agency will
also be funded by 0.5 per cent of the federal allocation of the six North-East
states.” “The bill, sponsored by Senator Ibrahim Geideam, representing Yobe East,
has passed the first reading in the Senate. Among the likely beneficiaries
under the bill will be 25 Boko Haram members and their wives, who recently arrived
in Maiduguri, the Borno State, after they reportedly surrendered to troops in
Niger Republic.” SERAP therefore urged Dr Lawal to urgently initiate four separate bills to
ensure: 1.    adequate reparations for victims
of Boko Haram atrocities; 2.    the delivery of humanitarian
assistance to those much in need; 3.    access to free, inclusive and
quality education to Nigerian children from socially and economically disadvantaged
sectors of the population. Any such bill should remove school fees and charges
to ensure all students can access school equally, and target financial support
for girls at risk of dropping out through girls’ education strategies; 4.    accelerate effective prosecution
of alleged repentant Boko Haram members and other members