The Alake of Egba land, Oba Adedokun Gbadebo and the Aare
Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Ige Adams have appealed to governors of South
West states to embrace regional integration to enhance the economy of the South
West. The duo made the appeal at the weekend, during the 2020 edition of Olumo Festival in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. Ugwuanyi donates N10m to widows of fallen soldiers The Egba monarch also expressed his appreciation to the Aare
Onakakanfo for making the giant strides in cultural promotion as well as
ensuring peace across the region. The Egba Monarch added that the Olumo Festival will continue
to be the pride of the Egba people. “I appreciate
Aare for ensuring peace. When I got the information about Aare’s effort on
Amotekun, I was relieved because the OPC under his leadership had saved the
nation from those that involved in the illegal act of bunkering while
protecting the pipelines. “He is always visible at events that had to do with
promotion of Yoruba cultural identity and heritage. “Whoever fails to promote his or her culture is like an
animal; therefore, we must join Aare Gani Adams, in his effort to sustain the
cultural heritage of our forefathers.” Aare Gani Adams, in his remarks, said the success recorded
so far with Amotekun project across the South West has vindicated the Yorubas
that there is power in unity. He spoke about regional integration across the South
West, adding that Yorubas have made significant progress through operation
Amotekun. “If there is an effective regional integration in the
power sector, the problem we are facing now in the country with the power
generation will be a thing of the past. It is sad that the privatisation of the
power sector had rather than becoming a blessing has turned out to be a curse. We
all know how much we pay as bills on monthly basis. The bill is always on the
high side. “We also need regional integration on transportation
sector across the South West. Building the rail transportation system will
enhance trade across the region. And with stable rail transport system, the
region will definitely become the business hub for foreign investors. “Whatever we can do to build our rail system across the
South West will always be in the overall interest of the entire region. This is
the way to go. The South West governments have what it takes to make this a
reality. “They can only complement the effort of the Federal
Government to initiate a policy direction that will make our region the most
efficient in Nigeria.” The Aareonakakanfo further stated that he and other
traditional rulers in the South West would be willing to support the initiative
if it was done properly. “I am ready to support this initiative as I have done
with the Amotekun project. Our monarchs across the South West are also ready to
support any idea that can bring development and growth to the region. This is
what we need now.” The Yoruba leader however, urged the Ogun State government
to emulate the former governor of the state, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, who
rehabilitated the Olumo Rock, saying, “Governor Dapo Abiodun needs to give a
face-lift to the Lisabi groove.” “About twenty thousand people are here today and many of
them are tourists and cultural enthusiasts. They all have injected several
millions into the economy of Ogun State and that will enhance the economic
fortunes of the state.” Guest lecturer at the event, Mr. Nurudeen Sodipe spoke about
the act of sustaining the Yoruba culture and heritage. He explained that the
Yoruba culture is one of the best in the world, stressing that the best idea is
to promote everything that has to do with the Yoruba culture and tradition. “What Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland is doing now is to
encourage us to know how best to promote 
the Yoruba culture.” Other traditional rulers present at the event includes: the
Olu of Itori, Oba Fatai Akamo, Alagura of Gbagura, Saburi, Babajide Isola
Bakre, the Owode of Egba, Oba Kolawole Sowemimo, and all the Egba in Council
among others.