In a bid to ensure airlines do not go bankrupt and out of the skies, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) has appealed  to governments in Africa and the Middle East to provide emergency support to airlines as they fight for survival due to the evaporation of air travel demand as a result of the COVID-19 crisis. Director-General and CEO of IATA,
Alexandre de Juniac  said stopping the
spread of COVID-19 is the top priority of governments, adding that  they must be aware that the public health
emergency has now become a catastrophe for economies and for aviation. He disclosed that the scale of the
current industry crisis is much worse and far more widespread than 9/11, SARS
or the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. He lamented that airlines are fighting for survival, stressing that many routes had been suspended in Africa and Middle East and airlines have seen demand fall by as much as 60 per cent on remaining ones. COVID-19: Lagos to conduct clinical trial on effectiveness of Chloroquine “Millions of jobs are at stake. Airlines
need urgent government action if they are to emerge from this in a fit state to
help the world recover, once COVID-19 is beaten,” said de Juniac He noted that extensive cost-cutting
measures are being implemented by the region’s carriers to mitigate the financial impact of COVID-19. He, however, stated that due to flight
bans as well as international and regional travel restrictions, airlines’
revenues are plummeting—outstripping the scope of even the most drastic cost
containment measures. With average cash reserves of
approximately two months in the region, the IATA boss stated that airlines are
facing liquidity and existential crisis. “Support measures are urgently needed.
On a global basis, IATA estimates that emergency aid of up to $200 billion is
required”. IATA is proposing a number of options
for governments to consider. They include direct financial support to the passenger
and cargo carriers to compensate for reduced revenues and liquidity
attributable to travel restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19; loan
guarantees and support for the corporate bond market by governments or central
banks. To him, the corporate bond market is a
vital source of finance, but the eligibility of corporate bonds for central
bank support needs to be extended and guaranteed by governments to provide
access for a wider range of companies. The group equally called for tax rebate
to airlines, rebates on payroll taxes paid to date in 2020 and/or an extension
of payment terms for the rest of 2020, along with a temporary waiver of ticket
taxes and other Government-imposed levies. “Several governments in Africa and the
Middle East have already committed national aid for COVID-19 including Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Egypt, Nigeria and Mauritius.
Our ask is that airlines, which are essential to all modern economies, are
given urgent consideration. This will help keep them alive and ensure airline
staff – and people working in allied sectors – have jobs to come back to at the
end of the crisis. It will enable global supply chains to continue functioning
and provide the connectivity that tourism and trade will depend on if they are
to contribute to rapid post-pandemic economic growth,“ said Muhammad Al Bakri,
IATA Regional Vice President of Africa, Middle East. Africa’s air transport industry’s economic contribution is estimated at $55.8 billion supporting 6.2 million jobs
and contributing 2.6 per cent to GDP. In the Middle East air transport’s
economic contribution is estimated at US$130 billion supporting 2.4 million
jobs and contributing 4.4 per cent to GDP.