.Anticipates
21,000 pilots, 25, 000 new technicians To meet market demands, Africa will need over 1,200 new passengers
and freighter aircraft by 2038, there will be double the number of planes we
currently see in the sky, the Airbus Global forecast has revealed. This is coming as aircraft giant, Airbus Industree has pledged commitment to Africa’s burgeoning aircraft market, saying the continent has witnessed exponential growth and would continue to grow because of the enormous potentials in the region. Farouk Lawan fails to open defence in alleged $620,000 bribery trial Mikail
 Houari, President, Airbus Africa & Middle East said, “The potential
 for aviation in Africa is immense and our focus remains on the
full aerospace value-chain. Our aim is to provide best-in-class products
 and
services, develop sustainable partnerships, foster innovation, nurture 
talent,
enhance skills and promote entrepreneurship in Africa.” He made the disclosure Wednesday as Airbus this week, joined
experts and key decision-makers in the aviation industry at the on-going
Aviation Africa Summit and Exhibition. The two-day summit is a major trade event for the aerospace
and defence industries with speakers from African airlines, civil aviation
authorities, business aviation and support industries. He said the aviation industry finds itself in a complementary
growth pattern with the African economy. Just as industry expansion creates jobs, attracts investment
and produces manufacturing opportunities across the continent, it is also set
to be a major beneficiary of Africa’s accelerating and continued economic
growth, forecasted by the African Development Bank to be at 3.9 per cent this
year and 4.1 per cent in 2021. On the back of such growth, Airbus’s own Global Market
Forecast (GMF) predicts that the continent’s rapid urbanization, trade and
tourism will contribute substantially to drive passenger traffic to and from
Africa by 5.0 per cent yearly over the next 20 years. From the airline perspective, African carriers are
increasingly aware of the operational and economic benefits of acquiring new
and modern aircraft. In fact, today airlines on the continent operate some of
the most efficient and technologically advanced aircraft such as the A350XWB,
A330neo, A320neo and the A220. Africa’s Airbus operators include customers such as
Ethiopian Airlines, Rwandair, Air Senegal, South African Airways, Air Côte
d’Ivoire, EgyptAir, Air Mauritius and more. In total, around 250 Airbus
aircraft are flown by more than 30 African operators.