·FIRS, Customs, other revenue generating agencies top list ·Targets N100bn savings in one year The Office of the Auditor General of the Federation has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC) to block further leakages of government funds and punish defaulting agencies. Speaking at the signing ceremony in Abuja on Wednesday, Auditor General of the federation, Anthony Ayine, said the partnership became necessary to fight corruption and ensure government revenues are adequately utilised. NAHCO retrieves Ethiopian Airlines handling deal “I wrote to the Chairman ICPC to explore the possibility of partnership. The primary basis of my writing and seeking partnership was to avoid the two institutions working in silos and to achieve synergy in the fight against corruption. Firstly, even with my over 1700 audit staff and about 800 staff at the ICPC, the combined workforce is quite small in the context of the challenge we face with corruption in Nigeria. “It therefore makes sense, that there should be no wasted or duplicated effort. Where we as auditors have information but that is not provided seamlessly to law enforcement agencies such as the ICPC, we have inadvertently created a duplication of effort or even worse, the scope for loopholes and leakages to go undetected. Information sharing is, therefore, a key benefit of the partnership. “Secondly, we as auditors do not have law enforcement responsibilities and powers, however, we do come across many instances where there is a need for law enforcement intervention. In such instances, the closer we are to an agency such as the ICPC, the more likely the intervention will be timely and productive. We therefore expect the ICPC’s law enforcement powers to complement our audit effort,” Ayine explained. Speaking further, he said the partnership will beam searchlights on revenue-generating agencies starting with the Federal Inland Revenue Service and Nigeria Customs Service, while placing a target of N100bn in revenue savings. “The assignment commences with Revenue Generating Agencies starting with the Federal Internal Revenue Service and the Nigerian Customs Service. This is in view of the revenue crunch facing Nigeria and the impact that will have on government ability to implement the 2020 Budget. “Our partnership will entail a joint work plan and joint visits and will send a strong signal to Nigerians that the fight against corruption has taken a new level. We intend to be timely with our work and have already written to the FIRS and Customs to let them know of our intentions. “Our plan is to report back to Nigeria on the first stage of our partnership by May 2020 and we have agreed on a target of N100 billion in savings, efficiency gains and financial impacts to be achieved within one year,” he added. In his address, the chairman ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, admitted that in the course of implementing the ICPC mandate, some of the revelations of the auditor general’s report is what the commission takes into cognizance, necessitating it to collaborate, given the spread of the auditor general’s office. He said that both agencies have trained their staff who are now ready to carry out the task. “In some past weeks and months, there have been intense specialized training of officers of the ICPC and auditor general’s office to prepare us for the task ahead. “What we hope to achieve is to be able to nip in the bud the findings of default that leads to revenue loss, diversions and infractions and quickly punish based on our own legislation. “Therefore, we will start this assignment by focusing on revenue generating agencies, looking at systems and specialized audits and if we find misallocation, we will encourage it to come back and if we need to take enforcement measures we will. “We have already carried out some investigations already on some of the MDAs who violate financial laws and ensure they do the right thing. “The officers who have undertaken the training will be led by directors from both the ICPC and auditor general’s office and the integrity of the process is hinged on them,” he noted. Recalling the events of 2019, ICPC boss said in their efforts to fulfil the ICPC mandate, they focused on the personnel of about 208 MDAs and were able to restrain about N40bn from being misspent, which is why their major focus is on revenue-generating agencies to aid in implementing the 2020 budget. “This year, the budget is about N10 trillion and the revenue is to come from taxes, proceeds from oil among others. These revenues are subsequently allocated to MDAs, as such, if we do not have a system that ensures that the money is used judiciously and Nigerians get value for the money, the national budget will be spent without any developmental impact. “We solicit the cooperation of the agencies we will start with as we have notified them and they are expecting us. As we said, the intention is to find wrong and deal with it decisively, especially in the recovery of assets. “This is a national assignment and our obligation is to assist government to realise its economic intentions and development agenda of Nigerian citizens,” he further stated.