The Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday called on
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the state to ensure proper sensitisation of
residents of the state about the dreaded Coronavirus. The issue came under Matter of Urgent Public Importance raised by Hon. Akeem Shokunle (Oshodi/Isolo 1) at plenary and seconded by Hon. Lukman Olumo (Ajeromi/Ifelodun 1). Sports Minister rules out postponement of Edo 2020 over coronavirus fears The representative of Oshod/Isolo who chairs the House
Committe on Health, stated that it is important the governor should sensitise
the people of Lagos State on the matter and implement the law passed by the 8th
Assembly on Cancer And Diseases Control Institute. Shokunle also urged Sanwo-Olu to direct the state
Commissioner for Education to do proper awareness on Coronavirus in all public
and private schools in the state. In his submission, the Speaker of the House, Rt.
Hon.Mudashiru Obasa, thanked members for their contributions on the matter, he
however, stated that the issue of placing a ban on airlines from the countries
affected by Coronavirus had to be re-considered due to the economic
consequences. “The Federal and Lagos State governments are working
hand in hand to curb the spread of Coronavirus. “We should commend our state governor for his efforts
on the matter. But, we should call on the governor to implement the provisions
of the law on Centre For Cancer and Diseases Control, which was passed in the
8th Assembly. “People, who had contact with the Italian man who had
the virus are being watched.  We should
standby at all times to reduce or prevent the incursion of such a disease into our
state,” the Speaker stated. Obasa stressed that the state government needed to reach out
to many organisations including the local government authorities, CDAs, CDCs,
NURTW and others to educate them so that they could pass information to the
people. He said people may
stop going to mosques, churches and parties for now. “We should wear mask or wash our hands. We can use
handkerchiefs when we go to gatherings. “The Commissioner for Education should ensure adequate
campaigns in our public and private schools,” he said. Contributing, the Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Sanai
Agunbiade (Ikorodu 1) said residents of the state should be urged to comply
with all the preventive measures to keep away from Coronavirus. He added that where any case is suspected, there are
telephone lines that have been released for the people to call. Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti Osa 2) urged the people to stop
spreading fake news about Coronavirus. Yishawu gave an example of where it was reported that the
Italian man that was quarantined by the state government over Coronavirus
wanted to escape from where he was being kept. Also speaking, Hon. Abiodun Tobun (Epe1) thanked the state
government for their efforts on the matter and advised the people not to spread
the disease beyond where it is. “It happened in China and not Nigeria, it is only one
case that was reported in Lagos. “We should know how to handle it. We know what happened
during the time of Ebola, when the state government curtailed it. “We should take our health with seriousness. We have to
take our hygiene seriously and protect ourselves from diseases. “The people should be told the preventive measures. We
should also educate our people. Our healthcare centres should use completely
disposable materials, and the state government should invest in disposable
materials, when handling issues relating to Coronavirus,” he said.