The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) has scaled up its capacity to conduct tests for the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Kaduna and Kano states. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, made this known on Sunday on Channels Television, Programme “Politics Today”, while, speaking on the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. Plateau records suspected case of COVID-19 Our correspondent reports that the FMOH also said it will upgrade its laboratories in Oyo, Ebonyi and Borno, to ensure prompt case management of epidemic and pandemic outbreaks in the country. Recall that Nigeria
had earlier set up five Molecular laboratories with this capacity. These are
located in the NCDC’s National Reference laboratory, Abuja, Irrua Specialist
Teaching Hospital, Redeemers University Nigeria, Lagos University Teaching
Hospital and Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Lagos. Ehanire
disclosed that the Virology Laboratory of the University College Hospital,
Ibadan, has now been added to the five functional Molecular laboratories in the
country. He said that
the six molecular laboratories have the capacities to detect the ongoing
Coronavirus (COVID-19), pandemic outbreak. He noted
that this would ensure prompt case management of COVID-19 pandemic outbreaks in
the country. “We do
targeted testing majorly.Targeted testing helps us to be more focused .We want
to be as fast as possible in curtailing the spread,” he said. He disclosed
that the government would be collaborating with a private laboratory in Kaduna
state to enable the state to also test for the virus. Ehanire said
that samples from cases that meet the case definition would be collected by the
State Epidemiology Team, and transported through a defined process from the state
to one of the testing laboratories. “The
inclusion of more laboratory will increase the capacity to detect cases in the
country, he noted. He, however
disclosed that a Molecular laboratory in Abakaliki, Ebonyi state would soon
be  set up and would also have the
capacity to test for COVID-19. The minister
said that each laboratory would continue to provide diagnostic support for a
defined number of states in the country. Meanwhile,
the Minister said that the restriction of movement in Lagos, Ogun, and the
Federal Capital Territory, was necessary to avoid the spread of COVID-19 in the
country.