The House of
Representatives on Tuesday resolved that the National Assembly should suspend
plenary for two weeks to enable the management install facilities to screen and
detect coronavirus. This was sequel to
the unanimous adoption of an amendment proposed by the Minority Leader, Rep.
Ndudi Elumelu to the motion sponsored by Rep. Josiah Idem on tackling the coronavirus. Amending the
motion, Rep. Elumelu said that there were no facilities to check people entering
the National Assembly complex and detect the coronavirus. He observed that an
infected person could walk into the National Assembly complex, shake hands with
people and spread the virus. “I urge the
leadership of the National Assembly to suspend plenary for two weeks to allow
management to sanitise and put facilities in place to detect the virus. “Let the House Committee
on Health and other relevant committees ensure compliance,” he said. Moving the motion
earlier, Rep. Idem said that there is the need for the leadership of the
assembly to constitute a committee to interface with the government to
eliminate the virus and called for the release of more emergency funds to
support the Federal Minister of Health to eliminate the novel virus. The lawmaker
stressed the need to intensify surveillance at all border entry points and
called for the immediate activation of centres designated for the treatment. Rep. Idem said that risk communication should be intensified and laboratory services expanded, while recommending the citing of two isolation centres each geo -political zone. Reps move to encourage local production of drugs Contrbuting to
debate on the motion, Rep. Inombeck-Awaji Abiante, reminded his colleagues that
a motion to bring back Nigerians stranded in China was thrown out by the House
for fear of importing the virus. He said that though
the Federal Ministry of Health has assured the public that the country is ready
to contain the virus, the coronavirus has found its way into the country,
asserting that it shows that the federal government is not really prepared for
the virus as Nigerians were made to believe. Also, Rep. Ibrahim
Isiaka revealed that the place where the infected Italian visited in Ogun state
was in his constituency, complaining that what was most disappointing was the
fact that the Italian was not detected at the entry port in Lagos. The House after
extensively debating the motion therefore, recommended that government should
convene an emergency national health conference for all health workers to come
together to address the spread of the virus. Ruling on the
motion, Deputy Speaker of the house, Ahmed Wase mandated all relevant House committees
to ensure compliance.