…As Cleric slams Akeredolu for doing too little AS the dreaded coronavirus, classified as a global pandemic
by the World Health Organisation (WHO), continues to ravage several nations
including Nigeria, the 2019 governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples
Movement (APM) in Ogun State, Adekunle Akinlade, has said that former governor
Ibikunle Amosun should be celebrated for the good works he has done for the
state. The former lawmaker said ten months ago, many members of the
current administration condemned Amosun for deploying the state’s resources in
constructing what they described as a “needless 250-bed ultra-modern hospital”. “Today, the facility is among one of the most equipped
medical outfits in the country. Many may ask, did Sen. Amosun know that we will
encounter Coronavirus epidemic?” The answer, he said, is no. This is however as the Senior Pastor, Awaiting the Second
Coming of Jesus Christ Ministry, Adewale Giwa has urged Governor Rotimi
Akeredolu to make Coronavirus material kits available for the people of Ondo
State. Akinlade said, “What differentiates a visionary leader from
just a leader is that it takes passion, sacrifice, and courage to act in the
interest of all. Like the 250-bed ultra-modern hospital, Amosun built bridges
across Sagamu/Ore expressway in Ijebu-Ode, the new high court, the Abeokuta
City Centre, the PMB Estate among others,” he spoke in an interview with an
online news platform. He, however, urged the people to seek God’s divine
intervention in curtailing the virus, asking them to assist the government in
its steps and prosper the state after the pandemic. But, Giwa in a statement he signed and made available to newsmen
on Wednesday, described the current outbreak of the pandemic as the most
unfortunate disaster in years. He said Akeredolu was not doing enough to protect the lives
of the people of Ondo State, lamenting that the disease was a “demon” that had
affected the global health. “This has never happened in the history, and that is why we
must do everything to protect the lives of the good people of Nigeria,” the
pastor added. According to him, this is one of the things that Jesus told
his followers to be expecting in Matthew 24, insisting that it is one of the
devil’s battles before Jesus Christ appears. “The disease that could have made the world shut down churches; schools among others would tell you that it is not ordinary anymore. Covid-19: Bayelsa chief judge, orders suspension of court sittings “We need to pray fervently against this demon, called
Coronavirus. “Permit me to say
that Governor Akeredolu is not doing enough to protect the people. Our people
are lamenting that there are no material kits. “This goes beyond
shutting down markets, schools and churches. We cannot just be copying what
others are doing without helping the people. “What stops the governor from spending his security vote?
This is the time to make use of it to save the lives of the people. “They know how they do it whenever they want people to vote
for them. They know how they give money to the voters. “Let them use the same strategy to help the people survive
this hard times,” he said,