.Orders him to step aside as APC chairman .We will respect court order on ex-Edo gov – APC National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, appears headed for more trouble as a Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court sitting in Jabi District of Abuja, on Wednesday, ordered his suspension, pending the determination of a substantive suit challenging his suspension from the party. Justice Danlami Senchi gave the order while ruling on an application for interlocutory injunction brought by plaintiff counsel, Oluwale Afolabi, who had prayed the court to suspend Oshiomhole, having been suspended as a member of the APC from his Etsako ward 10 in Edo State. Equities market sustain rebound as ASI gains 0.6% The suit was filed by Mustapha Salihu and five others through their counsel, Oluwole Afolabi, in which Adams Oshiomhole and All Progressives Congress (APC) are the 1st and 2nd respondents. The plaintiffs in their application dated and filed on January 16 had contended that Oshiomhole is currently suspended by the party and has not challenged the suspension. According to the plaintiff lawyer, Oshiomhole’s rights as a member is currently abated and he cannot continue to act as chairman of the party. He argued that Oshiomhole cannot continue to enjoy benefits from the APC in view of his suspension as a member of the party. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Damian Dodo, is the lawyer representing Oshiomhole and the APC. In his ruling on Wednesday, Justice Senchi held that the second respondent wrongfully kept Oshiomhole as the National Chairman of the party. The court also ordered that Oshiomhole should stop parading himself as the Chairman of the party. The judge also asked the APC to desist from acknowledging him as the chairman of the party. The court further ordered APC not to grant Oshiomhole access to the party secretariat. Justice Danlami Senchi said that political parties must abide by their constitution, adding that since Oshiomhole had been evidently suspended by his ward and the suspension not challenged, he has no business any longer parading himself as national chairman of the party. Meanwhile, hearing in the substantive suit has been adjourned to April 7 and 8, 2020. Reacting to the ruling, the the All Progressives Congress (APC) said that it will obey the court order. The party’s position was made known on Wednesday evening by the acting National Secretary, Victor Giadom, while addressing journalists at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. He, however, said the National Working Committee of the party will soon meet on the new development. He said: “As a party, we are aware of the injunction. As a law abiding party, we will respect all lawful court orders. Very soon the National Working Committee will meet and you will hear further from the party. I am trying to say that the All Progressives Congress will respect all lawful court orders. We will soon do that”. When asked if he meant to say that Oshiomhole for now remains suspended, Giadom reiterated that “like I did say, there is a court injunction and it is binding on us as a party to respect all the court injunction”. On whether the party is sourcing for any replacement for Oshiomhole, he said: “That is not within my powers”. He likewise denied knowledge of any meeting going on at Aso Drive Abuja residence of Oshiomhole. “Not to my knowledge. We haven’t met. Like I did say, the NWC will very soon convoke a meeting”, he said. Oshiomhole’s travails: Comrade Adams Oshiomhole emerged  the national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on June 23, 2018 following a voice vote by delegates at the party’s national convention abd he was expected to energise the party which was said to be slumbering under the leadership of the former national chairman, Chief John Odigie – Oyegun. Hardly had Oshiomhole settled down in office when tongues started wagging about his supposed high handedness in running the affairs of APC. Party members at the top and lower rung of the party’s ladder started complaining of the combative administrative stance of Oshiomhole, which they abhorred as an anathema to internal democratic norms. He was tagged a ‘despot’ who dictate the pace at APC headquarters without due consultations of party hierarchy. The suspended Deputy National Chairman (North)  Lawal Shuaibu, in a letter on May 28, 2019,  called for Oshiomhole’s resignation hand accused the national chairman of running the party like a private fiefdom and imposing decisions on the party without recourse to organs of the party like the NWC and NEC. Oshiomhole was further accused by party loyalists for being responsible for APC’s unfortunate loss in all elections in Zamfara State and the governorship election in Rivers State following not properly managed primaries ahead of the 2019 polls. Also, at the home front, in his Edo State of origin, the sweet romance he once had with his political son, Godwin Obaseki, who he single-handedly installed to succeed him as governor began to turn bitter as Obaseki attempted wriggling himself out of the appendage of Oshiomhole’s godfatherism. Problem in the Edo State chapter of APC started in June 2019 when nine out of the 24 member Edo House of Assembly sidelined 15 others to elect a Speaker and other principal officers. The aggrieved lawmakers loyal to Oshiomhole till date are on self- exile in Abuja. Efforts by the House of Representatives to shut down Edo State House of Assembly and the Senate’s move to forcefully take over the Edo legislature were restricted by court orders and the impasse lingers and so also the political gulf between Oshiomhole and Obaseki widens. This unsettled power tussle between the duo has created dichotomy in Edo APC as factions belonging to the two leaders are in suspension supremacy battle. However, growing protests against Oshiomhole’s continuous stay in office swell by the day as handful of protesters stormed the APC national secretariat, turning the party secretariat to a battle ground between anti- Oshiomhole and pro – Oshiomhole protesters. The embattled Oshiomhole survived the stormy gale of suspension during the last NEC meeting of the party. But immediately after the meeting, some aggrieved members tagged APC State Chairmen Forum addressed a press conference calling for Oshiomhole’s resignation. The Zamfara APC state chairman, Lawali Liman, who spoke on behalf of the group, accused Oshiomhole of usurping the position of the party’s NEC. The forum in a statement said “most of the goodwill acquired by the party, by reasons of its religious adherence to the provisions of its constitution and the tenets of internal democratic practices has taken a downturn, principally due to dictatorial and despotic tendencies of the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who has usurped the powers of the National Executive Committee of the party. The forum demanded Oshiomhole’s resignation in order to stem the slide and provide an enabling environment for genuine healing, reconciliation and the practice of true democracy, within the party across the country. Also, the Northeast caucus of APC called for invoking of Oshiomhole’s suspension over imposition of candidate. The party’s National Vice Chairman, North – East, Mustapha Salihu, accused Oshiomhole of taking unilateral decisions which are injurious to the growth of APC and has caused the party serious losses in the past. Salihu said the northeast caucus have also called for revisit of the suspension order on Oshiomhole by the Edo State chapter of APC which he claimed has not been vacated by any court order. To him, the national chairman remained suspended and all actions he takes since the suspension including convening NEC meeting remain null and void. “Secondly, I have seen a subsisting court order somewhere, where is been gotten from the party from Edo, they followed the procedure of suspension from his ward, local government, state and his suspension was announced and court upheld it. “As I am standing here I have not seen any court that is vacating that subsisting court order. So I am not recognising him as National Chairman, he doesn’t have the right to call for any meeting”, he said. Also of recent, the Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum, platform of APC governors, Salihu Mohammed Lukman, warned Oshiomhole not to destroy the party, calling on him to respect party organisational structures. Lukman expressed dissatisfaction of APC governors with development in its Edo State chapter and the unending fued between Oshiomhole and the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. He decried the counter – accusations and suspension orders on party chieftains by factional leaders of Edo APC while it also knocked the party National leadership on the recent development on the disqualification of APC deputy governorship candidate in Bayelsa State. The loss of the party in states like Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa, and lately Bayelsa which chiefly gave away electoral victories to PDP was blamed on reckless conduct by Oshiomhole. The suspended National chairman was accused of influencing the June 2019 suspension of Governors Rotimi Akeredolu, Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun, which he said are not permissible by provisions of the APC’s constitution. Meanwhile, to avert break down of law and order, the National secretariat of the All Progressives Congress came under lock Wednesday evening. This followed the warding off of protesters believed to be loyal to the suspended chairman. The protestets who besieged the entrance to the party secretariat were prevented by armed policemen after which journalists were ordered out of the APC Press Corps media centre. At about 6.55 pm, a security personnel, who approached the journalists, said there was an order to barricade the main entrance to the premises with police van while all doors leading to the building were ordered to be shut and remain closed until 10 am this morning. As at time of filing this report, not less than seven police patrol vans with armed personnel were stationed around the party secretariat.