.Says 12 new cases confirmed in Lagos, 2 in FCT .FG urges Nigerians to maintain social distancing. Contact tracing of 4, 370 persons in progress – Lai .’Coronavirus may be transmitted sexually- Health minister Total number of confirmed Coronavirus (COVID-19) cases in Nigeria now stands 65, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) stated on Thursday night. In a series of tweets on its verified handle, @NCDCgov, the organisation said “14 new cases of #COVID19 have been confirmed in Nigeria: 2 in FCT, 12 in Lagos. COVID-19: Lagos PDP Chairman, Doherty, writes Sanwo-Olu “Of the 14, 6 were detected on a vessel, 3 are returning travellers into Nigeria & 1 is close contact of a confirmed case. “As at 7:35 pm 26th March, there are 65 confirmed cases in the country”. Earlier on Thursday, the Federal Government had confirmed 51 new cases of Coronavirus disease, otherwise known as COVID-19, in Nigeria. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who was giving an update during an emergency press briefing in Abuja on Thursday, also disclosed that there is a high possibility of the COVID-19 virus to be sexually transmitted. The minister, who disclosed that Lagos has 32 cases, added that the FCT has so far recorded 10 cases, Ogun three cases, while Ekiti, Oyo, Edo, Bauchi, Osun and Rivers states have recorded one case each. He said that of the 51 cases, 37 had immediate travel history to one or more of the coronavirus affected countries in the last two weeks, adding that eight are confirmed close contacts of confirmed cases while 6 have neither a recent travel history nor a known contact. Ehanire revealed that while two persons have been cured and discharged from treatment one fatality case was recorded, adding that 48 presently active cases are clinically stable with only mild or moderate symptoms. While calling on Nigerians to maintain the social distancing directive, he added that the Federal Government, working through the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, has issued a closure order on all land borders and international airports. ‘’One major item in Nigeria’s disease containment strategy is social distancing, which has been repeatedly announced. Directives have thus been issued at national and state levels, to limit all large gatherings including religious, social and political gatherings, schools, events, etc. ‘’Some states have put the maximum number of gatherings at 50, but a general order will be announced. Markets have also been closed and alternative solutions to the food supply chain created in some states. ‘’More of the all-important social distancing measures shall be considered in the coming days. The inconveniences are regretted, but I urge all citizens to accept and practice them in good faith, as they are for our common good and in the interest of us all. ‘’The other critical measure we are taking is Contact tracing, which is going on, to identify persons who have been in close contact with confirmed cases. The Federal Ministry of Health is working closely with states and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, to review response activities and to institute measures to protect the health and wellbeing of Nigerians,’’ the minister added. While disclosing that the donations from Jack Ma have been received and distributed to states, the minister added that Lagos got the lion share. He said that it is not everyone that has to wear a facemask, stressing that the action will affect supplies for medical personnel. Since the onset of the outbreak in Nigeria, many Nigerians have been wearing face masks in an attempt to prevent contracting the virus. However, Ehanire said if the facemasks were for everyone, “Jack Ma will have had to donate 200 million masks.” He added that one of the presidential aide that was tested positive is receiving treatment in a secured area. Meanwhile, Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has revealed that the Federal Government is tracing no fewer than 4, 370 people that have contact with index cases of the novel coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). The minister made this known on Thursday in Abuja, while giving update on the measures being taken by the government to tackle the pandemic. “We have 4,3 70 people of interest whom we are tracing, and we urge those who have had contact with suspected cases to immediately report to the authorities. “We urge Nigerians to support the authorities in this regard, because we are on the verge of reaching the level of community spread. “We must stop this immediately or we will record exponential cases in the days ahead,” he said. The minister noted that being positive to coronavirus is not a death sentence and as such there is no justification for people not to surrender themselves for test. He said some Nigerians, who flew into the country from overseas, filled wrong addresses and phone numbers in their forms, making it difficult to trace them when the need arose. “We are not getting the kind of cooperation that this moment deserves from Nigerians. Many are busy engaging in meaningless criticisms instead of complying with the stipulated directives to keep people safe. “Some Nigerians defied orders to stay away from large gatherings, while some religious leaders wilfully flouted the directives to ensure social distancing. The government is doing its best, but we need the citizens to do their best too,” he added. The minister said it has got to the stage when government would have to use strong enforcement for people to comply to directives aimed at curbing the spread of COVID-19.