A member of the Benue State House of Assembly representing
Makurdi South State Constituency, Hon. Terwase Aondoakaa has donated ten water
pumping machine to Vegetable Producers and sellers Cooperative Association in
Makurdi Local Government Area of the state. Performing the ceremony at Agboghoul community on Monday, the lawmaker said the donation was his token of appreciation for the people he said overwhelmingly voted him into the house as well as other candidates during 2019 general election. 32 political parties laud Ayade on performance, salute him at 52 According to him, “it was only wise to donate the water
pumping machines with a firm belief that it will go a long way in enhancing
your businesses as a token of appreciation and we would continue to do more as
resources available at my disposal would permit.” The state lawmaker who charged  them to make judicious use of the machines to
impact positively on their economic lives, urged them to continue to support
the  PDP administration in the state to
provide dividends of democracy and shun acts that will spark off violence in
the community. In his remarks, the Kindred head of Agboughoul, Chief
Vincent Tseson described the gesture as first of it kind from any elected
member from the constituency since it’s creation and commended Aondoakaa for
intervening into the nefarious activities of Fulani herdsmen in the community
when the issue was brought to his notice. While urging the
constituents to always support the lawmaker to spur him  to do more, Chief Tseson charged women not to
divert the machines to other uses other than those they were donated for
saying, doing so would defeat the purpose for which the donation was meant to
achieve. The PDP Chairman of Makurdi Local Government Area, Alhaji
Yunusa Garba, noted that the gesture did not come to the community as a surprise
given the antecedents of the lawmaker over the years and urged residents of the
area to vote for PDP candidates in the match 28th, local government elections. Receiving the machines, president of Women Vegetable
Producers and Sellers Association, Mrs. Veronica Akile noted that, one of their
major challenges have been the lack of pumping machines to carry out their
farming work during the dry seasons and thanked the lawmaker for honouring his
promise to return to them after election. She thanked the lawmaker over his well thought out idea,
saying it was going to improve on their business, stressing that the issue of
getting water to irrigate their farms is over and pledged their resolve to make
good use of the machines and support the lawmaker to succeed in his future
endeavors.