Nigeria
Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) has announced plans of a  partnership with the World Bank and
International Financial Cooperation (IFC) on staff capacity building and
infrastructural development for Free Trade Zones in the country. NEPZA Acting Managing Director, Mr Bitrus Dawuk, explained in a statement  that the partnership will help in attracting more Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) to the Nigerian economy. President excluded from amendment to immunity bill for vice-president, govs Addressing World
Bank and the IFC delegation who paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja, Dawuk
explained that one of the bottlenecks militating against optimal performance of
free trade zones was NEPZA’s obsolete legislation. According to him, the legislation is in the
process of being amended by the National Assembly. He said: “NEPZA
is ever ready to work with the World Bank and the IFC in giving Nigeria world
class free zones. “There are
already measures in place to review the outdated regulations of NEPZA to make
it more favourable for foreign investors to come in and invest in the country. “I will be on
your neck from now on, especially in areas of training of my staff for optimum
performance,” he said. The leader of
the delegation, Mr Feyi Boroffice said the visit was aimed at strengthening
relationship with NEPZA by providing an enabling environment to attract more
foreign investors into Nigeria. Boroffice stated
that it would be achieved by building anchor projects that would encourage the
establishment of industries such as the Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical
plant. “The IFC finances private companies,
International Development Association (IDA) which provides assurance on
political risks for foreign investors and the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) which provides arbitration for investment
disputes. “The World Bank Group is the multilateral development institution so our aim is to go to all
developing countries in the world to see where we can provide funding or advice
to help with development. “Out of  210 or 220 countries in the world, 150 of
them are developing countries, we need to go there and see how we can help with
development”. He explained
that the World Bank had been part of the Dangote Refinery and Fertiliser plant
project in Ibeju Lekki, suggesting the need for replication of such massive
project across other zones of the federation. “We are also
interested in the Akwa Ibom free trade zone project which we understand is
under your authority’s supervision as we appeal to you and the authority to
give us the opportunity to participate in the project for the total economic
benefit of Nigeria,” he said. He, however,
pointed out that  the major hindrance, in
the regulatory laws of NEPZA, as captured in the 1992 establishment the decree,  needed to be amended to
encourage foreign investors to replicate such heights as achieved by Dangote
Group of companies. He added that
there should be a legal framework across the zones to improve the union between
NEPZA and the World Bank. The IFC
representative, Bambo Kunle-Salami also said the world bank always strive to
provide funding and advice to the public sector and government while the IFC
dwelt more on private sectors. “So in Nigeria
we have been active for over 30 years. You all know Dangote cement plant, when
Nigeria had no cement capacity, we financed that plant from its very
beginning”.