The Nigeria Centre for Disease and Control NCDC has said that the the Coronavirus cases in Nigeria has reached eight nine. The came as the NCDC said that eight new cases were discovered in Lagos and Benue state. According to the NCDC: ‘8 new cases of #COVID19 have been reported in Nigeria, 7 in Lagos and 1 in Benue State. As at 04:00 pm 28th March there are 89 confirmed cases of #COVID19 reported in Nigeria with 1 death.4:12 PM · Mar 28, 2020· Also President Muhammadu Buhari was on Saturday briefed by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, on the latest developments over the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The minister, who was at the official residence of the president, updated him on the pandemic and other health issues in the country. President, Ehanire and other dignitaries at the briefing observed the principle of social distancing being advocated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as part of precautions against the spread of the COVID-19 across the world. Fielding questions from State House Correspondent of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), after the closed door meeting with the president, Ehanire said he was summoned to the villa to give additional explanations on some health matters in the country. Breaking: Femi Adesina denies report that FG will pay N30,000 to Nigerians with BVN The minister, who was accompanied by some officials of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said the president was satisfied with the activities of his ministry and that of the NCDC so far as regard to the ongoing fight against the spread of Coronavirus in the country. Nigeria has so far confirmed 89 cases of COVID-19, while the World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Office for Africa in Brazzaville, Congo, also confirmed 3,778 cases of Coronavirus in 46 African countries as at March 27, 2020. The 43 ministers in Buhari’s cabinet had on Saturday in a statement by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, announced donation of 50 per cent of their March salaries to support government’s efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. 