  The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo has described the newly commissioned Evonig Glass Production Factory of the Julius Berger Nigeria Plc as a revolutionary fillip to Nigeria’s industrial development. Speaking at the commissioning of the Abumet production plant, the minister encouraged Julius Berger to keep up its worthy contributions to the federal government’s strategic national industrial development and growth works. This is even as Julius Berger Nigeria Plc has officially launched its new innovative product, the Evonig Glassin Abuja. The General Manager of Abumet, the top grade metal and glass subsidiary of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Mr Tamas Hovart, explained that Evonig Glass is an industrial acronym which is proudly synthesises the two words ‘Evolution’ and ‘Nigeria’. The product, Tamas said,“is not just an improvement of existing offerings in the Nigerian market; it is a combination of the latest technology and a skilled and committed Nigeria team.” The Evonig Glass, Tamas further explained, “is a special offering defined by great production quality according to best international standard, innovation, availability, local content and a strong Nigerian workforce, reliable technical partnerships and advanced technology as well as sustainability and reliable after-sales service.” The General Manager of Abumet, Tamas informed guests at the event that current industrial and procurement estimates of supply to the Nigerian IGU market is put at 90% for imported production and 10 per cent for local production. This situation, he said, exposes the Nigerian users of the product to long wait for offshore shipments and prohibitive exposure to foreign exchange challenges. FG has no exact figure of crude stolen by oil thieves-NNPC Julius Berger Abumet, Tamas said, “aim to offer comparably faster delivery times for a high quality insulated glass unit solution made in Nigeria with international standards, at a competitive rate.” The Julius BergerAbumet Evonig glass, offer technical solutions more commonly known as Double glazing, a well-known application in Sub-tropical areas, which consists of two glass panel separated by a vacuum or gas-filled space to reduce heat transfer and noise across a part of the building; and Triple glazing which consists of three-glass panel and two space to achieve greater performance level. This glazing technology now manufactured in Nigeria by Julius BergerAbumet is highly recommended where the temperature difference between interior and outside spaces is significant so that greater thermal insulation required. The use of Evonig glass with its two glass panes and vacuum space also limits and significantly reduces noise from passing through the building. Tamas happily adds that “it becomes even better when the two panes of glass have various thickness.” Another key benefit of Evonig glass is that it technically increases the important function of security in a building. With more glass panes, IGU panels become tougher and with a combination of laminated or toughened glass types its get more difficult to break! On hand at the event to commission the Julius Berger Abumet Evonig Glass production plant was the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo. The Honourable Minister commended the Julius Berger Group for its initiative to domesticate the novel production of Evonig Glass at the Idu Industrial Area in Abuja Nigeria. Adebayo who said the President Buhari administration has the vision to create a hundred million jobs in the country in the next decade described the Abumet plant as a worthy job creation initiative. The Honourable Minister gave kudos to Julius Berger for also pioneering the first and most advance fully automated IGU production line in Nigeria.