Mediacraft Associates, recently in Lagos organized an in-house Coronavirus sensitization and awareness training for its employees. With all members
of staff in attendance, the 25-minute long presentation was anchored by an
Account Executive, Judith Igwe.  She led
her audience through the session, explaining the origin of the virus, ways by
which people can get infected and measures to prevent contracting the virus.
She also enumerated the symptoms, which include: runny nose, sore throat, dry
cough, fatigue and fever. The agency has
made provision for medical care for its employees in the event of a health
challenge. John Ehiguese, CEO, Mediacraft Associates, encouraged all members of staff to take advantage of the resources provided within the company to ensure their personal and collective safety. No Formula One before June as Monaco also falls to coronavirus He said:
“While the country has been relatively fortunate to have witnessed very
low incidents of coronavirus cases, everyone must be more vigilant than ever in
observing personal hygiene. We should wash our hands always for a minimum of
twenty seconds with soap and clean water. We should also avoid touching our
eyes, nose and mouth with our hands.” The agency has
already started implementing safety measures to ensure that its employees and
guests are safe from potential community spread of the coronavirus. The CEO
urged employees to make use of the essential provisions and stated that the new
measures put in place are for the precaution and safety of everyone. According to
him, “beginning from the entrance to our premises, safety compliance
should be observed, as everyone will have his or her temperature checked with
an infrared thermometer. Also, hand sanitizers have been placed in various
locations within the building to ensure everyone keeps their hands sanitized
from time to time. These measures are important and I am optimistic that this
situation will blow over soon.” Nigeria recorded
its first case of coronavirus on February 26, in Lagos State, Nigeria’s
financial capital. The country has officially recorded only three confirmed
cases of the virus so far.

The World Health
Organization has declared the novel coronavirus outbreak a pandemic. 