Barring any last-minute change, Oyo state Governor, Seyi Makinde
will on Tuesday sign into law the bill backing the establishment of the
Oyo state Security Network Agency codenamed ‘Amotekun’ Corps. The bill was passed with fanfare by the House of Assembly last Tuesday as lawmakers and members of staff wore fabrics with leopard designs to the plenary. Northern governors forum congratulates Osinbajo @63 The bill, which was the sole discussion for the day, passed third
reading and was passed into law by a unanimous decision. Meanwhile, reports have it that the office of the Governor of Oyo state
has started making preparations for the ceremonial signing of ‘Amotekun’ bill
into law by Gov. Makinde tomorrow. The governor has played a pivotal role in the establishment of the
regional security outfit due to the central location and importance of Oyo
state to the south-west. For instance, the security summit, which gave birth to the idea of ‘Amotekun’,
was held in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital in July. The outfit was also jointly launched in the premises of Gov. Makinde’s
office on January 9, before the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister
of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) declared a regional security outfit illegal. ‘Operation Amotekun’ was originally conceived as a regional security
outfit by governors of Oyo, Osun, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo and Lagos states. The governors agreed to give it legal backing by the legislature of each
state to overcome its illegality in the face of the Nigerian constitution. The state assemblies and attorneys general of the six states worked
together to generate the law backing the outfit. Though, it was created on state-by-state basis, the outfit will still
operate as a regional organization, wearing the same uniform, using the same
operational guidelines, having joint training for personnel and working
together across borders to prevent criminality or track down criminals . Gov. Makinde is reportedly
preparing to sign the bill into law on Tuesday as directive has been given for
staff to set the stage for the ceremony.