The Coalition of United Political Party (CUPP) has called for the immediate isolation of some state governors and other persons who had contacts with President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. Kyari, who recently arrived in Nigeria from Germany and the
United Kingdom, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, while President
Buhari tested negative. Sources in the Presidency have disclosed that Kyari has been
indoors since the test result was announced. As of Tuesday afternoon, Nigeria has recorded a total of 42
Covid-19 cases, two deaths, and two recoveries. The forty cases cut across
patients from Abuja, Lagos, Edo, Oyo, Ekiti and Ogun states. Meanwhile, the Nigerian opposition coalition expressed
gratitude to God over the negative result of President Muhammadu Buhari
following his Coronavirus test. This was contained in a statement on Tuesday, which was
signed by the coalition’s spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere. “We wish the Chief of Staff speedy recovery and pray for
divine intervention for him. We call that the best possible hands and all
available resources be deployed to ensure the safety of Mallam Abba Kyari. “He is obviously a resource to the Presidency and a trusted confidant of the President and his wellbeing will keep the President in a good frame of mind to diligently lead our country in these very trying times. Military kill scores of terrorists in N/East clearance operations “We also use this opportunity to urge President Muhammadu
Buhari to see his clean bill of health as a divine chance to be more proactive
and do all within his powers to protect all Nigerians from this dreaded
COVID-19. “This chance must neither be misused nor missed as our
continued nationhood now hinges strongly on it. “The CUPP also calls for immediate self-isolation and
testing of every person who has had cause to visit the Aso Rock Presidential
Villa since Mallam Abba Kyari returned to the country from his foreign trip. “The Vice President, All Ministers, Secretary to the
Government of the Federation, Head of Service, all APC Governors who attended
the APC leadership peace meeting. “The Bayelsa State governor
who also visited the President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives who
also met with the President on the 16th of March, all who attended the
Commissioning of the Emergency Number 112 by the President on 19th March and
indeed all who have visited the Villa or met with the Chief of Staff to the
President since that time,” the statement read in parts.