A total number of 223 children including 10
girls have been released from Nigerian Army administrative custody and
Maiduguri Maximum Security Prison after being cleared of suspected ties with
armed groups. According to a press statement signed by Mr. Samuel
Kaalu, United Nations Children Fund, (UNICEF), Communication Officer in Borno
state, the children were released to the safe custody of Borno State Ministry
of Women Affairs and Social Development, UNICEF and Borno State authorities in
Maiduguri, north-east Nigeria. Kaalu said that the children will immediately
be enrolled in a reintegration programme to enable them to re-engage with their
families. “The children will now immediately enter a
programme that will help them reintegrate into their communities, re-engage
with their families, and take the first steps towards creating a new life and
means of livelihood. ‘’Last night, 223 children including 10 girls
were released from Nigerian Army administrative custody and Maiduguri Maximum
Security Prison after they were cleared of suspected ties with armed groups. “They were released to the safe custody of Borno State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, UNICEF and Borno State authorities in Maiduguri, north-east Nigeria. Supreme Court Judgement: APC Chieftain calls for Constitutional amendment “The children will now immediately enter a
programme that will help them reintegrate into their communities, re-engage
with their families, and take the first steps towards creating a new life and
means of livelihood. “Some of the children had been missing for up to four to
five years, with many presumed dead by their families. “The release of these children is a huge step
forward and one to be welcomed and celebrated,” said Peter Hawkins, UNICEF
Representative. “These children deserve to have a normal
childhood – and now require our full care and support to re-enter the lives
that were so brutally interrupted by this devastating conflict. Reacting to the development, UNICEF Country
Representative, Peter Hawkins says the release of the children is a huge step
forward towards ensuring the well-being of children in conflict areas “These children deserve to have a normal
childhood – and now require our full care and support to re-enter the lives
that were so brutally interrupted by this devastating conflict.” Now in its tenth year, the conflict in the
north-east Nigeria continues to uproot and devastate the lives of tens of
thousands of children, women and men. Since 2016, about 1,743 children associated
with armed groups (1,125 boys, 618 girls) have been released from
administrative custody.