Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, says Nigerian rice can
compete favourably in the global market. This assertion is contained in a statement by the Director Information in the Ministry, Theodore Ogaziechi, made available to reporters on Sunday in Abuja. Coronavirus: Edo deploys health officials to airport, motor parks to check spread Nanono, according
to the statement made the disclosure during a working visit to rice farms and
mills of Stallion Group Limited, Popular Farms and Mill Limited, producers of
Stallion rice in Kano. The minister said
that Nigerian rice would compete favourably in the global market the moment
exportation began, stating that “if we maintain this momentum in the next two
years, we may export rice to other countries.” He announced that
the ministry would convene a forum within the next four years for all
stakeholders in the rice sub -sector to dialogue on how to improve on seedlings
and farm inputs among others. The minister lauded
the Stallion Group for efforts towards improving rice production and creating
jobs for Nigerians, just as he urged other investors to key into the agri-business
because of its numerous financial benefits. Nanono however,
lamented the high cost of rice, saying that “I see no reason why a 50kg bag of
rice should be sold for N17, 000. The maximum processing expense is N2, 000,
making a total of N10, 500; it is unpatriotic to sell a bag more than N14, 000
to N15, 000.” Earlier, the
Managing Director, Popular Farms and Mill Limited, Amit Kumar Rai, had stated
that Stallion Group Popular Farms and Mills Limited had invested over $70 million
to boost production of agriculture business, especially rice and sesame in
Nigeria. He said that the
company operates the biggest rice mill in Kano with an annual installed
capacity of 430, 000 metric tonnes, adding that it has a consolidated capacity
of 1.7 million metric tonnes. According to him, the
group is investing also in additional milling facilities locally, in order to
obtain self-sufficiency in rice production, pointing out that the company
organises training and distribution of rice farming tools to out growers across
the rice producing states in Nigeria. The statement said
that the minister also visited Premier Seed Nigeria Limited and Value Seeds
Limited, Zaria, Kaduna state, where he emphasised the overall goals of the
policy principles of the agriculture promotion policy. He stated that it
would concentrate on providing an enabling environment for stakeholders at the
federal and state levels to play their distinctive roles.