Comedian I Go Dye has announced the postponement of his comedy show tagged “I Go Dye Standing, “Kinging with the Kings” to celebrate 25 years on stage as a comedian following the scare of COVID-19. Slated to hold come April 12, Easter Sunday 2020 at the Best Western HomeVille GRA, Benin; the comedian disclosed that the safety of Nigerians come first and as such keeping the event on hold is best despite spending millions of naira towards the preparation process. The multiple award-winning comedian noted that all hands must be on deck, especially since the World Health Organisation had announced that the virus has birthed in 26 countries of the world so far. “Due to the global threats from corona virus, my forth coming Silver Anniversary on stage, “I Go Dye: Kinging with the Kings” platinum edition has been postponed . This period calls for concern and sober reflection; it’s a moment of trying times. I can’t be celebrating now, as cases of coronavirus disease continue to be identified in countries around the world, the effort to stem its spread has kept some 290 million students home from school, according to the United Nations, as of Tuesday, 22 February.” he noted,. “I feel for those who are affected globally. We may not be directly affected for now, but there are many people globally that are been put under pressure, fear and threat of sudden death. As I pray for lasting peace, I ask for prayers and goodwill to be shared among us. The lives of our neighbors mean a lot, we should accept this moment as a divine opportunity to show love to one another. For the sake of my fans, brothers, sisters and all those kept in isolation globally, because of corona virus ,I share in their pains and I put down this celebration because of the cases. I appeal to countries that have created vaccines and working to create a lasting cure to share their discoveries so as to bring back peace and good health to our lives. In Africa we may not be so lucky with medical advancement and social support, but we can share the little we can as a people, by sharing the information to reduce it’s tendency to spread,” he added.