By Chioma Joseph The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a 27-year-old man, Ejike Okata, who is alleged to have killed and butchered a 50-year-old woman, Adeyiba Oladipupo. The deceased, it was learnt had accused the suspect, her neighbour, of stealing her phone at their Ayegbami compound, in Ijebu-Ode. Following the accusation, tempers flared, and the angry Okata, was said to have rushed into his room, returning with a machete. How Real Madrid reclaimed La Liga lead from Barca  Although other neighbours pleaded he return the machete, the plea fell on deaf ears as Okata, rushed to Oladipupo, and hit her on the head with the machete. While still bleeding, the suspect chopped off Oladipupo’s two hands,. She however died shortly after. The suspect also fled seeing the woman was dead. Commenting,  the Ogun Police Public Relations Officer ( PPRO),  Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the matter was reported  by the brother of the deceased at the Obalende police station, ijebu-Ode, on February 28, 2020.Oyeyemi said : “ The man said his elder sister who resided at Ayegbami area of ijebu-Oe was matcheted to death by his neighbor over a minor argument and that the suspect had run away immediately after the incident. “ Upon the report, the Divisional Police Officer,  Obalende Division Omonijo Sunday, a Chief Superintendent of Police,  mobilized his detectives to the scene where the corpse of the victim was recovered and taken to Ijjebu-Ode General Hospital Mortuary, for autopsy, while serious manhunt was launched for the fleeing suspect. “ The efforts of the detectives yielded positive result on March 1,2020 when the suspect was about boarding an Ebonyi state bound motor but was apprehended by policemen who have already laid ambush for him due to intelligence information they already have about him. “ On interrogation, the suspect who hailed from Onueke in Eza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, confessed matcheting the deceased to death because she accused him of stealing a phone, which infuriated him. He confessed further that he cut off the woman’s two hands because she wanted to struggle the machete with him.” The PPRO revealed that the Commissioner of Police, CP Kenneth Ebrimson,  had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID),  for further investigation and prosecution.