To Nigerians, that the 14th Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has been dethroned is
incontrovertibly established. However, the nuances and the sociological imports
of his dethronement should not be lost on the society. To start with, the
allegations made against the deposed Emir were, up till now,
neither substantiated nor provided credible and sufficient reasons for his
removal. Yet, the man was summarily removed in a hurry by a government that appears
to be hiding something. In recent times, the pronouncements of the Emir have no doubt been acerbic and critical of the Nigerian government. Sanusi did not take any prisoners! With deviant profundity, he exposed the charade of the Northern government. He talked about the abuse of women, the menace of the almajiris and the need to abolish it. He lampooned the elite and warned them against the abuse of children, especially, the girl child. He lamented the frightening number of the out-of-school children in the North and linked it to the ever-rising number of Boko Haram adherents, drugs addicts and the reservoir of political thugs, which now defines the demography of the Northern part of the country. Amotekun Bill not for Ekiti people alone, but for everybody –  Fayemi Emir Sanusi may be gone!
However, the seed of the destruction of
the feudal system in the Northern part of Nigeria has
been sown. In other words, we have not heard the last of Sanusi, the deposed 14th Emir of Kano. The questions now
are: what manner of man is Sanusi’s replacement, or the newly-installed Emir? Will he tolerate
the beating of women? Will he promote the abuse of children and early marriage
for the girl child? Will he
encourage almajiri to grow
exponentially? Or will the new Emir embrace the status quo? Without doubt, the behaviour of
the government of Kano, in this instance, is devoid of congenial diplomacy and
calculated openness, which responsible governments world over, are noted for. For
instance, how expedient is the
dethronement and banishment of an Emir to the demands of sound
Public Administration and the provision of good governance to the people of
Kano State, which, to my mind, is the primary
responsibility of the governor?  How compatible is the traditional legal
and normative laws on dethronement and banishment with the extant laws
of the land? Put in clear terms, if the man must be dethroned, at
what stage, therefore, did the Kano State Government begin to abuse its powers? Let’s for the sake of argument
admit that he was dethroned
traditionally which, then, means that the man must be
willing, without the compulsion of the state. Who then decided his Nasarawa new home for him? If
it was not Sanusi, that amounted to abduction in the eye of the
law; nothing but a clear case of
kidnap, because it was done against his
will! After all, the man can’t go to London today, if he so decides! If his
eventual detention in Awe was as a result of ‘security
reports’, as we are now being told, who, again, decided that the
antidote to such reports could be found only in Loko, later, Awe,
both in Nasarawa State? Let’s talk about the throne
itself, which has for long become a thorny issue, even, among the academia.
For a long time, it has been decided that, as long as you keep the traditional
stool, the stool in itself is antithetical to legal rational order. With the
Sanusi saga, it has become clear that the legal rational order doesn’t
understand Emirship or Obaship. That’s why a governor in a state
in the South South could talk carelessly to a beaded king in the full glare of
the public; and all the casualty of that mockable and unacceptable recklessness could do
was to swallow it, without missing a beat! ‘This thing of being a hero …!’ Blame Sanusi for the
misfortunes that have eventually befallen him. He ought to have seen the handwriting
on the wall and thrown in the towel
before it got to this level. But, again, blame not the Emir, for he was only
displaying the Africanness in us: we don’t quit
and we don’t resign! We don’t even retire! But, like water, we are only
answerable to the call of temperature: when it is cold, we freeze; and when it
is hot, we melt. In any case, pity the country that gives little in return for
its people’s industry. Pity the enclave that sacrifices its best on the altar
of mere political exigencies. Pity a people who make of themselves
onlookers in the face of tyranny and oppression. Sanusi has done his bit! He
has trod where, even, angels dreaded. As a
Banker, he reached the very peak of his career. Right from childhood, his main
ambition was to become the Emir of Kano. And he’s been
there! As this dethronement brouhaha
simmers, people will start forgetting who Sanusi was. He becomes another
number, or, statistics of
dethroned Emirs, Obis or Obas! And that is the sad reality about Nigeria’s
political firmament. With the situation of
things, it bears repeating that Kano, and, indeed, the entire North has lost a
star, a brilliant man who fought a good battle, even, if it appears as if all
his efforts are wasted. By default, Nigeria has also lost the service of a
distinguished leader and social crusader. In the case of the deposed Emir, he
deserves a pride of place in history. On insinuations that Sanusi’s
removal might have been ordered from Abuja, while there’s no concrete proof to support this assertion, the manner
of installation and the speed of the homage to Aso Rock by his replacement were in no small way
suggestive of invisible hands somewhere, somehow! But, and as I’ve
argued elsewhere, President Muhammadu Buhari has served
Nigeria to the best of his ability. As providence would also have it, he has also had his fill of his
country to the best that life can offer. So, all he needs, “going forward, is
the royal life. Let the president just be fine and okay with himself.” The more reason those
who still believe that Nigeria’s future belongs to them must work, not
only towards taking back their country from the troublers of its Israel, they
must also do all that is humanly possible to move the country forward. As Tunde
Bakare once said, “anyone who fights
for a people who are not prepared to fight for themselves is a fool!” May the Lamb of God, who takes
away the sin of the world, grant us peace in Nigeria!