Operatives of the Lagos state Police Command on the enforcement of the federal and state governments’ directives on gatherings have shut 15 schools, eight clubs, six event centres and eight places of worship for non-compliance with the measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19). Speaking
through a press statement issued on Wednesday, the command noted that the
enforcement will be extended to markets in the state with the exception of
those who sell essential items, such as foodstuffs, medicines and others. In the
statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Elkana Bala, the
police said essential service providers such as financial institutions,
telecommunication companies and other businesses not affected by the ban should
henceforth comply with the new directive in the state, restricting gatherings
to 25 persons per time. The
statement reads: “The command has in the last six days deployed its resources
across the state to ensure that the guidelines and directives issued by both
the federal and state governments to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are
fully obeyed. “The
enforcement team shut down eight clubs, 15 schools, six event centres and eight
places of worship for non -compliance. “With the
directives issued by Lagos state government on March 24, the enforcement will
now be extended to all markets and stores, except markets that are selling food
items, water, medicine, pharmacies, medical equipment and other related
essential life -saving products, with effect from March 26. “Corporate
bodies such as financial institutions, telecommunication companies and
businesses not affected by the ban should also ensure that both their employees
and customers/clients are not more than 25 in number at a time. “Staff
should be posted to ATM stands to ensure that customers using the service space
themselves to avoid body contact. “Eateries
should encourage their customers to use take- away services and those who must
sit in the restaurant/eatery should apply the required spacing guidelines.
Eateries should not have more than 25 persons at a time, including their staff.” The
command also stated that hotels should only operate lodging and accommodation
services with minimal number of staff on duty, while conference and event
halls, swimming pools and other services attracting crowds should be
suspended in line with the order and directives of the government. “The
Commissioner of Police, Lagos state, Hakeem Odumosu, enjoins the good people of
Lagos state to obey the safety regulations put in place by government for the
benefit of everyone. “Violators
will be dealt with in line with extant laws. Together we can prevent the spread
of COVID-19. For information or complaints regarding non- compliance, call the
following numbers 09010512285, 09010512286, 09010512287 and 09010512288,” the
police stated.