…As investors get 2.80k dividend per share Shareholders of Zenith Bank Plc has urged the lender to embark on seamless banking expansion, even as the bank declared a Profit-After-Tax (PAT) of N178billion, and also paid a dividend of N2.80 kobo to its investors. Speaking  during the Zenith Bank’s 29th Annual General Meeting (AGM), in Abuja on Monday, the bank’s Chairman, Jim Ovia, explained that  2019 the financial year had its challenges, but the bank explored other  avenues to make the business thrives. Abule Ado blast : Sanwo-Olu briefs President Buhari According to him, notwithstanding the challenges encountered
in 2019, the bank leveraged on the opportunities within the business
environment. “Gross earnings grew by 5 per cent from N538bn in 2018 to
N565billion in 2019 while Profit-Before Tax (PTB) rose by 4.1 per cent from N192bn
in 2018 to N200bn in 2019. “Also, Profit-After-Tax rose by 7.6 per cent from N165bn in
2018 to N178bn in 2019, just as the group shareholders’ find grew by 15 per
cent from N816bn in 2018 to N942bn in 2019 while gross earnings rose by 5 per
cent from N630 billion in 2018 to N662billion in 2019,” he said Ovia added that as a pioneer in the deployment of digital
technology in the Nigerian banking industry, Zenith bank remains committed to
pushing the boundaries and setting the pace in financial technology. Also
speaking, the Group Managing Director of Zenith Bank, Ebenezer
Onyeagu says shareholders have every cause to be smile with a dividend of
2.80k which translates to a dividend yield of over 14 per cent. He said if compared
vis-à-vis the current share price, it amounts to a dividend of 15 per cent per
annum. According
 to him, “We have
assured the shareholders that no matter the challenges operating in the 
external environment, the bank will continue to be efficiently managed, 
we will
create value and we won’t be reckless because we want to comply with a 
loan to deposit
ratio. We will also continue to
remain ethical and focused, so shareholders have reasons to be happy,” With regards to the
coronavirus outbreak and its impact on the global economy, he said the bank has
made the health and safety of staff priority, and adopted other precautionary
measures. He
 added that “We are
looking at the areas of vulnerability as a financial institution and 
within
this period, we have no plans of any risk acquisition until we see how 
the virus is contained and its impact on the global economy.” Speaking to reporters,
National chairman, Progressives shareholders association of Nigeria, Okezie
Boniface said the bank has set a good precedence for government to follow
in the area of profit-making. “If
 a corporate entity is
doing well like this, the government should also be able to do well, 
because if the government keep saying the economy is bad and we have 
this positive result by
corporate entities, then the government should do it’s homework well to 
find its
area of failure. “The private sector has
set a standard which government needs to emulate and that’s why we have this
excellent result. Dividends of 2.80k are not easy to come. We are talking about
more than N70 billion paid out as a dividend to shareholders and it is the
highest in the bank sector and the closest should be Guarantee Trust bank who hasn’t
done their AGM yet. He, however, urged the
bank to make banking more seamless for customers by exploring more
technological platforms in financial services delivery.