A five -year -old female pupil identified as Merit Ogor allegedly kidnapped in her school in Agbor, Delta state at the weekend regained her freedom and has been reunited with her parents. It was gathered that the little girl was abducted in her school in Agbor by unknown gunmen, who drove her into an unknown destination where she has been held captive for the past six weeks. COVID-19: Chairmen announce shutdown of FCT area councils But, the police in Agbor through the Divisional Police Officer, Samuel
Kwabe, confirmed to journalists that four suspects have been arrested in
connection with the kidnap. Kwabe adding that the suspects would be charged to court on completion
of investigation, disclosing that the little girl regained her freedom through
the efforts of his men. According to him, the abducted girl was sold to an orphanage home in the
area for N250, 000, stating that all those involved in the transaction have
been arrested. Mother of the girl, Mrs. Gloria Samuel said she was yet to come to terms
with the reality of the fact that her close friend, whose name was simply given
as Mariam could nurse the idea of abducting her child for sale to an orphanage She said that “at about 12.30 pm, I got a call from my husband to
inform me of the development. Thereafter, I called my friend, Mariam to also
inform her because apart from being my friend she also has her daughter in the
same school. “Almost immediately, she joined me at the school, where she told me that
she was at the school earlier. Then, I asked what she came to do and she said
she came to give her daughter money to buy sugar for her to eat garri. “It was at the point we became suspicious of her and other interactions
with her thereafter, proved us right as she admitted taking my daughter, Merit
away.” Kwabe further disclosed that the prime suspect including the
proprietress of the orphanage home were being detained alongside others for further
investigation, adding that the girl had been re-united with her parents.