A report by the  https://www.independent.co.uk/  has said that messages about Hantavirus a new outbreak similar to the coronavirus are circulating on WhatsApp and other social media  platforms was overexaggerated and that  it is not comparable to the new deadly coronavirus The texts, which make reference to the rise of hantavirus, warn that the world could be in danger of yet another disease as it grapples with Covid-19. The WhatsApp messages “When the whole world is still suffering from Covid-19, here comes another virus…” . “The ‘hanta virus’ has been detected in China, mainly caused by rodents. One already died and few tested positive.” According to Wikipedia: An orthohantavirus is a single-stranded, enveloped, negative-sense RNA virus in the family Hantaviridae of the order Bunyavirales. These viruses normally cause infection in rodents, but do not cause disease in them. Humans may become infected with hantaviruses through contact with rodent urine, saliva, or feces Also NCBI said that ‘in 1978, the etiologic agent of Korean Hemerologic fever was isolated from small infected field rodent Apodemus agrarius near Hantan river in South Korea. The virus was named as Hantaan virus, after the name of the river Hantan. ‘ The  independent.co.uk  said that hantavirus does refer to a dangerous family of viruses, they are not comparable to the new coronavirus and are nowhere near as dangerous. Hantavirus is not new at all, having been known about for decades and potentially been active for even longer; it does not easily pass between humans; it can only be caught by consuming the bodily fluids of rats or mice; and the world is much better equipped to deal with it, including holding vaccines. The story about a death does appear to be correct. Chinese state newspaper Global Times reported that one man had died on his way to Shandong Province on his way to work but   Hantavirus  spreads as a result of close contact with rodent urine, saliva and droppings. The rare virus cannot be transmitted from one human to another. The symptoms of the HPS include fever, muscle ache, fatigue, dizziness – similar to those of influenza. Coughing and shortening of breath can happen later, when the infection reaches the lungs and fills it with liquid. 