Some experts in the nation’s health sector have warned that masturbating can cause health condition for those who already have hypertension issues. Speaking during an exclusive interview with the “Health Times’’ the experts warned that if one blood pressure is not controlled in the cause of masturbation, it might spike during  ejaculation that may lead to cardiac arrest or stroke. Dr. Abidemi Olatunji, a private medical practitioner residing in the Federal Capital Territory, who clarified that masturbation, is not the reason for high blood pressure explained that it just raises blood pressure levels and that too can be temporary. He said, ‘’you do not have to worry, if you do not have hypertension, masturbation cannot be the reason for causing this health condition. It just raises the blood pressure levels and that too can be temporary. ‘’And if you are suffering from hypertension, you are safe, provided your condition is under control’’. Also sharing his view, Dr. Kenneth Alakpa, a medical practitioner with Nasarawa State general hospital said warned that masturbation affects one psychologically; by leaving those who usually indulge in the practice depressed after ejaculation. ‘’Frequent masturbation can deplete energy levels in both men and women. ‘’Men and women can become addicted to the point where they no longer desire sexual contact with other people. In extreme cases, people who are addicted to masturbation have been known to shun the outside world just so they will have more time and space to masturbate. ‘’During masturbation, the body releases a seminal fluid that contains 90% water and 10% protein. When this seminal fluid is ejaculated too often, it might result in a protein deficiency, which could hasten the process of hair loss’’, Dr. Alakpa added. For his past, a private medical partitioner residing in Lugbe, a satellite town in the FCT, Dr. Brown Onwalata advised against masturbation saying, ‘’addiction to it  can harm ones  relationships and other parts of life. Masturbating too much may interrupt your work or studies, which can lower productivity. ‘’It may also hurt your romantic relationships and friendships, because you don’t spend as much time with your loved ones as you used to, or don’t pay attention to their needs’’, Onwalata added. He advised those addicted to the act to speak with their doctors or a counselor about ways to cut down on masturbating. ‘’Talk therapy can help you manage your addiction. You could also cut down by replacing masturbation with other activities like going for a run, spending time with friends or going for a walk’’, he said.