Hopefully Prof Ango Abdullahi and his power mongering
cohorts from northern Nigeria listened to the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II
speak in Kaduna penultimate Monday. At 82, Abdullahi, who is a former Vice-Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, should ordinarily be one of those statesmen who seek the survival of Nigeria by all means possible. Why? He was one of those who were born before the country lost its promise. Coronavirus: 43 persons quarantined for investigation in Plateau Abdullahi and a few others of his generation walked the
green of Nigeria and sucked the freshest milk from the country’ breasts while
at their succulent best. It is therefore only godly that such people should,
knowing what the past was like, do everything possible within their means to
bestow a much better country on generations coming. Such expectations are not outlandish, even when such men of
history elect to lead regional bodies as Abdullahi does the Northern Elders
Forum. At the twilight of peoples’ lives, it is only natural to expect that
they aspire for nothing more than a legacy for which future generations of
Nigerians will be proud of. And the most possibly profound of those legacies
are those that show concern and empathy for the good of the people. But can we
say that about Abdullahi? Even when speaking for the north in line with the
expectation of his office, this octogenarian professor of Agriculture is more
interested in the political placements of a few rather than the overall development
of the people on whose sweat the society exists at all. This logic, the
futility of which I plan to return to presently is what Sanusi tried to preach
at the 60th birthday celebration of Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State
last week. Although Sanusi’s apostolic intervention did not start in
Kaduna that hazy Monday morning, the event of the day provided an opportunity
for an unusual clinical impact. Sitting in the room where His Vocal Majesty
spoke to truth were the men and few women who hold power across every divide in
Nigeria. Unlike the previous occasions when he spread the urgent gospel of
paying attention to the living standard of the common man in northern Nigeria,
everyone capable of effecting a start in this change was present. So, Sanusi said: “If the north does not change, the north
will destroy itself. The country is moving on. The quota system that everybody
talks about must have a sunset clause…So, as we celebrate Nasir at 60, we need
to celebrate him as a public officer who is addressing the core problems of his
constituency. It’s education. It’s about girl child education, women’s rights,
child begging, parental irresponsibility and demographic growth. It’s also about managing a multicultural, multi-ethnic and
multi-religious society and bringing them into one community where they are all
citizens…. You don’t need to rise on being from Kaduna State or being from the
north or being a Muslim to get a job. You come with your credentials, go with
your competence and compete with any Nigerian from anywhere.” While it would be uncivil to suggest that leaders of
socio-political groups like Prof Abdullahi do not realise these obvious gaps in
the developmental realities of the north, they have been largely self-serving
in the quest for political power, such that they seem not to see the issues. Earlier this month, for example, the Northern Elders Forum
had called out the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd). The group
addressed a press conference where it said the President had failed not just
the north, but also the entire country. It spoke about the nexus between
poverty and insecurity and ended its preachment by promising that it would only
support a candidate with the interest of the north at heart in 2023. Now, although it might not be the exact mindset of the
group, the impression you get from “having the interest of the north at heart”
is that the candidate must be from the north. The truth being that, the
antecedents of these groups have shown a mind fixed on the assumption that no
one can have the interest of the north at heart as much as someone from the
region. It is a mentality that gives these people away as not having learnt
anything from our immediately recallable history. We should interrogate this
disposition. By the end of Buhari’s current rule in 2023, it would be 63
years after Nigeria’s independence, a period within which the country has had
15 leaders, four southerners and 11 northerners. In 63 years, someone of
northern extraction has ruled Nigeria for a cumulative of 44 years, but that
has not helped the common man in any way. As it stands today, northern Nigeria is the capital of
poverty in the country. Just as it bears the highest rate of children not
receiving education and girl-children forced into marriage. It is the bed of
child malnutrition cum drug abuse and as a corollary, the hotbed of the most
atrocious forms of anger against negligent society as evidenced by varieties of
insurgencies and banditry. When you consider the psychology behind threats to support
only candidates with the interest of a region at heart, you then understand the
parochial limitations of these regional leaders and their inability to
comprehend the fact that everyone who desires to rule Nigeria must love every
part of the country without exception. You will understand that these men
desire nothing more than bragging rights. You also see reasons behind the
obsessive interest in who seats in Abuja, while little or no attention is paid
to the activities of governors on whose shoulders most of the decisions that
would liberate the north rest. It is good though that some
governors in the north see the value of educating every child. Mallam El
Rufai’s Kaduna is an example of such an awakening. Earlier last week, Governor
Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State also launched the Best Education Service
Delivery for All programme by introducing 7,500 volunteer teachers, making
education compulsory for all children and enabling the arrest of violators of
the scheme. But more governors need to listen and embrace the values of
education. While education is not an immediate solution to every problem, it is
a powerful instrument capable of ultimately liberating people from the
debilitating hold of poverty, lack, disease. Quality education can perpetually
free people from the shackles of tradition and backward cultural practices that
should not be spoken of in this age. Late chief Obafemi Awolowo, thinker, politician and Premier
of the old Western Region, repeatedly drew out the point about education to
politicians of his generation. In Philosophy for independent Nigeria, a speech
he delivered to some Nigerians studying in the United Kingdom in 1961, Awolowo
lamented, “Education is still in its inchoate stages. The masses hunger after
education. The position in the south is good, but it is very far from being so
in the north. A little over 250,000 children are now receiving primary
education in the north as against 1.3million in the east and 1.2 million in the
west. Secondary education ought to be free, but only the well-to-do can afford
to send their children to any post-primary schools. The award of scholarships
tenable in institutions of higher learning and for technical and vocational
studies, now lags very much behind the present need of the country, with the
result that many a lustrous talent is wasting and rotting away either in a soul
depressing job or in an asylum.” That was where the rain started falling on the north. Except
that, rather than take on depressing jobs, the angry children of those years
have taken up arms against the country. Nigeria as a whole, not just the north,
is currently suffering from the neglect of the children in years past. And
unless something is done fast, the destruction, spoken of by Emir Sanusi will
surely come to pass. The only other thing is that the north will obviously not
suffer those consequences alone. It is the same rain that falls on the bad man,
that ruins the parade of the good man. That is why, everyone should be worried.
It may be seen as their problem now, but it will be only a matter of time
before it becomes everyone’s problem.