Chief
Incident Commander for the counter measures against Coronavirus (COVID-19)
outbreak in Lagos State, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has again re-assured
Nigerians that the State remained committed to every effort geared towards
preventing the human-to-human transmission of the virus, following the index
case reported last Friday. The Governor
said both the State and Federal Government healthcare officials had been
working round the clock with infectious disease control professionals from the
international agencies to ensure the counter measures being deployed to contain
the virus achieved the desired results. Sanwo-Olu
spoke on Sunday during his visit to the State-owned bio-security and
containment facility at Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) in Yaba, Lagos
Mainland, where the Italian national diagnosed with COVID-19 is being managed.
Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, and Commissioner for Information and
Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, accompanied the Governor on the tour of the
facility. Sanwo-Olu
said he was highly confident in the response approach initiated by the State’s
Incident Command Centre in the wake of the outbreak of the virus, expressing
optimism that the nation would survive the epidemic and put it behind. He said: “Let
me express a confession that I am very delighted with the level of preparedness
and our response to stop coronavirus from spreading in our country. The kind of
structures we have put in place and the strategies being deployed have raised
my confidence that the nation, at the end of the day, will win this battle and will
put it behind. I keep on expressing to the Commissioner for Health that we must
stop at nothing to achieve the very best result.” Sanwo-Olu
said the State had already upgraded its isolation facilities at the IDH in the
case of escalation in the number of cases, revealing that two additional
containment centres had been created with 80 bed spaces and necessary medical
equipment to manage cases. Also, there are two mobile isolation wards of 15-bed
capacity each stationed in the hospital. Reacting to
the report of scarcity of sanitary materials at pharmacy shops across the
State, the Governor condemned the action, saying it was wicked for people to
take the advantage of emergency situation to hoard and jerk the prices of face
mask and hand sanitizer. He said:
“This should not be the means for anyone to enrich themselves. It is
unfortunate people are hoarding these important sanitary materials. We need to
speak to ourselves. People are just abusing a rare opportunity, because the
outbreak is not an event everybody wishes for. I think it is unacceptable for
people to sell above the prices they used to sell before the outbreak. These
people should search their conscience and ask themselves what kind of people
are we. We should be our brother’s keeper.” Sanwo-Olu
also frowned at misinformation trailing the COVID-19 case being managed at the
IDH, saying the public deserved to get accurate information about the
management of the patient in isolation. He urged the media practitioners to
approach the appropriate quarters for updates and developments on the case
being managed. “Our citizens
need to be calmed and assured that the professionals deployed to handle the
virus outbreak are constantly on the ground to do it. The media should
communicate and give accurate report to our citizens to let them know that
authorities and the professionals that need to be on ground are working
tirelessly to curtail virus,” he said. Sanwo-Olu said the State Government had stepped up the level of sensitisation and advocacy among residents at the grassroots, disclosing that the effort would be followed up by a series of stakeholders’ meetings in the week. Police Games: Anambra will experience economic boom – Monarch He said he
would be meeting with Governors of neighbouring States on Monday to draw up
strategies in scaling up advocacy on the virus among people and also to design
more community-based approaches that would prevent the spread of the virus.
There also would be meetings with local government officials and transport
workers’ unions, the Governor said. Commissioner
for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, likened the State’s response towards containing
the outbreak of COVID-19 as “a war”, saying Lagos had deployed three levels of
counter measure to stop the spread of the virus, which include medical,
security and research. He disclosed
that Lagos and Ogun governments were constantly exchanging information,
following the outbreak, adding that the movement of the index case had
necessitated more cooperation between the two States. Abayomi, who
is a professor of Bio-security Technology, said Lagos Government did not want
the virus to spread to other States, which was why it deployed funds and
personnel to break the cycle of transmission. “We are
always in a state of extreme readiness and one step ahead of the virus. We are
doing everything within our power to break the cycle of transmission of the
virus in our land,” the Commissioner said.