The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, has called for a macroeconomic framework that is employment friendly as a starting point in mass employment creation in Africa. Ngige made the call at the 6th African Social Partners’ Summit organised by the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) in Lagos with the theme: ‘Toward the Socio-Economic Transformation of Africa Through Job Creation: The Role of the Social Partners’. Lokogoma: FCTA commence demolition of illegal structures “With very high unemployment rate in the continent,
there has never been a greater need to place employment at the centre of
economic and social policies. One reason why employment challenges loom as large as it does
today is that employment has often been viewed as a derivative of other
policies, rather than as a central concern of all economic and social policies. “What is needed is for the social partners at this summit to push
for a macroeconomic framework that is explicitly pro-employment in their
respective countries. This will enhance the labour absorption capacity of African
economies.” The minister said that unemployment, underemployment, and poverty
were critical challenges that required the concerted efforts of all
stakeholders to address successfully. According to him, Nigerian Government is currently working
assiduously with African leaders to address unemployment challenges through
well targeted interventions. “The Nigerian Government is conscious of the fact that most of the
unemployed are those without functional skills. Our strategy, therefore, is to equip the unemployed youths with
market-driven skills which facilitates access to self or paid employment. “In that regard, we have designed the N-Power Programme to
drastically reduce youths unemployment. The focus is to provide our young unemployed job seekers with the
cutting edge skills to venture into self or paid employment,” Ngige said.

In her remarks, Ms Cynthia Samuel-Olonjuwon of the International
Labour Organisation (ILO), said that constructive social dialogue played a huge
role in the implementation of Africa transformation agenda. Samuel-Olonjuwon, also the Assistant Director-General and
Regional Director for Africa, said that such agenda would require
collaboration among the governments, employers and workers. “It requires the contribution of proactive, effective,
representative employers and workers organisations. “It requires a spirit of constructive collaboration, where
different interests are able to meet for a common good and goal. “As social partners, you have a key role to play in demanding, but
also inspiring and facilitating the kinds of reforms that will meet the decent
jobs challenge in Africa,” she said. The Director-General, NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale, said that the task
of jobs creation was collaborative between the private and public sector. “Though, we know, the private sector is the real sector of the economy,
the government has a role which is very critical. “For the private sector to create employment, it must be able to
work in an enabling environment for it to do its business and for businesses to
thrive and survive and to sustain those jobs they have created. “The starting point is for government to create an enabling
environment by ensuring that businesses thrive in the economy, competitive and
sustainable. “This is done through the policy direction of government,” Olawale
said.