Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi state on Thursday scored President Muhammadu Buhari high for transforming Nigeria into a self-sufficient country in rice production within four and half years.  Gov. Bagudu said this at the agricultural show held at the Argungu Stadium in Kebbi state as part of activities lined up for the 2020 Argungu International Fishing and Cultural Festival. ALSO READ:Ekiti court hears suit against Ajimobi’s appointment as APC national officer The governor, who appreciated the president for his special interest in Kebbi state, explained that his people have certainly benefited from the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor-Borrower Programme. He appealed to the president to extend the programme to other staple crops to enable farmers of other farm produce benefit from the gesture. The governor said that the state in collaboration with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is implementing an ethanol plant at Gwazawa in Zuru Emirate, Danko/Wasago Local Government Area. He observed that the festival has not been celebrated for over 10 years due to security challenges, stating that “however, under your leadership, patriotic and realistic policies were put in place which paved way for the celebration.” Gov. Bagudu also lauded the presidential fertilizer initiative which, according to him brought succour to farmers by making fertilizers readily available across Nigeria. On border closure, the governor said: “You (Buhari) have closed it not because you are at war with other nations, but because of your patriotism.” Emir of Argungu, Alhaji Sama’ila Mera, commended the federal government in its concerted efforts toward addressing the security challenges that made the event realistic. “We commend the federal government for improving the security situation in our country and also the closure of borders as the government deemed it as a measure to improve our economy and security in the country. “We thank President Muhammadu Buhari for the launch of the anchor borrower programme in 2015 that resulted in the establishment of rice processing mills, foreign investment and employment generation to our teeming unemployed youths in the state,” he said.