  Lagos State University (LASU) Ojo, Lagos has taken another definitive step to further pronounce its support for and promotion of a friendly environment, one that supports the health of Lagosians by creating a technology that is capable of monitoring carbon monoxide emission level in vehicles in the state. This was announced by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, when he led a delegation of the institution on working visit to the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency in Alausa, Ikeja, recently where he was received by the General Manager of the Agency, Dr. Dolapo Fasewe. Prof. Fagbohun was joined on the visit by Director, Centre for Environmental Studies and Sustainable Development (CESSED), Prof. Barakat Animashaun and Deputy Registrar, Vice Chancellor’s Office, Mrs. Anat Adesunkanmi, and other officials of the university. The robust interaction had the Director, CESSED, Prof. Adeola Barakat Animashaun set the tone by giving a background to the relationship between the Centre for Environmental Studies and Sustainable Development(CESSED), which she heads, and the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), exploring the long history between the Bodies: “CESSED and LASEPA share a long history. This was demonstrated when we came visiting in January, and had some very fruitful deliberations on areas of collaboration, “she enthused. She expressed CESSED’s readiness to work with LASEPA on research, saying: “CESSED is ready to partner with the research arm of LASEPA.” She noted that staff of the Agency are welcomed to enroll for any of the academic programmes run by the university. Out-of-school children, security threat to Nigeria, says Lawan Speaking, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, acknowledged the intelligence, clear headedness and foresight of the Director of the Agency, Dr. Dolapo Fasewe, calling her “the Amazon”. He went further to chronicle the shared vision behind the establishment of the two bodies, describing them as “Siamese twins”. His words: “CESSED was borne out of the foresight of a man described as a rare breed African with outstanding intellect, Prof. Enitan Bababunmi, and Distinguished Prof. Peter Okebukola, as a research arm of the LASEPA. The government on the other hand created the LASEPA as an environmental police, and the CESSED was conceived to provide research for that police. “But unfortunately, because of politics, somewhere along the line, that relationship broke down. But today, we are back.” He praised the Lagos State Government for making the relationship a reality, adding, “That is why I must congratulate the state government for providing the enabling environment that has made this work.” He praised the Director of CESSED, Prof. Animashaun, for her role in facilitating the visit. “In January, Prof Animashaun told me she wanted to have a conversation with LASEPA and when she came back, she came with a lot of ideas and I decided that we should come with the full complement of my team to concretize the discussions such that whatever we do will outlive us.” He further advocated that the regulation on environmental noise should be sustained. “I am happy that the private sector is here. What the Agency is doing will help them understand that LASEPA is not out to harass them but to work with them to make more gains. If you make money in an unhealthy environment, it is a time bomb for us. But if you make it in such a way that we sustain a healthy environment, we will all be better for it,” the VC said. On proposed areas of collaboration, the Professor of Environmental Law highlighted Capacity Building, Research, Compliance Monitoring, Risk Assessment, and Technology. “We are in the age of big data”, he said of Technology. “Technology can be deployed for vehicle emission monitoring. We have developed an App in LASU that when attached to the dashboard of a vehicle, it can measure the carbon monoxide emission level. This will help the Agency to monitor appropriately and charge defaulters as due,” he added. He concluded by reiterating his institution’s preparedness to work with LASEPA, adding, “What we can do is to put together a technical team from both institutions to work on identified areas. I thank you and your esteemed team for receiving us. You can be sure we are ready to work with you”. The LASEPA DG, Dr. Fasewe, in her response, expressed delight at the visit of the LASU Team, and confirmed her willingness to work with the University. She further announced that the Agency as part of its mandate to ensure a healthy environment, was promoting the use of reusable cloth bag as an alternative to polythene bag, which does not decompose. Presenting a sample of the bag to the VC, she encouraged the Lagos State University to also adopt the use of the bag on its campuses. She concluded by pledging the State Government’s readiness to adopt the technology developed by the University to address the problem of carbon emission in vehicles.