The Inspector General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu has visited Kaduna after Sunday’s attack in five communities in which 51 people were killed by bandits. Adamu who interacted with senior police officers of the state Police Command on Wednesday, pledged that the police would uproot all bandits from their hideouts across the state. Breaking: Kano Assembly set committee to probe Emir Sanusi He told the senior police officers that the Force would review and devise new strategies in confronting the challenges. Adamu said that the new initiatives were very important in view of the challenges the activities of bandits, ISWAP members and some elements of Boko Haram were posing around the state. “This necessitated our concerted effort to root them out by negotiating with our sister agency, the Air Force, to fight them and we recorded success,“he said. “This is a constant strategy we have put in place to go into their den to root them out as we are not relenting on our efforts.” He explained that his visit was to re-assess the strategy in view of the attack in Igabi and Giwa LGAs. “What happened should not have happened and we will not allow it to happen again. “We have been briefed on the channel that opened up on the attack and we will block those chances so they will never have the opportunity to attack again,“he said. The police boss called on the general public to avail the police useful information, adding that the force would not relent on its efforts to rid the state and Nigeria of banditry. He said that most of the bandits who have their houses in the villages, believed that some people were collaborating with the law enforcement agencies by giving out information about them. “We have observed that they attack mostly early in the morning and at night, hence we will re-strategise to stop them from attacking these villages again.” He said that the force had mobilised more of its special forces units from other commands to re-equip the strategic initiative to deal with banditry. ” For our men who are on the front line as always, we talk to them on the rules of engagement as they need to be courageous and remain focused. “We will encourage them to continue to work as we will keep supporting them in whatever way we can,” he said. (NAN)