Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has asked the Federal Government to “publish weekly details of exact funds and other resources allocated by the authorities and received from the private sector, as well as details of use and planned use of any such funds and resources to combat the spread of coronavirus (or COVID-19) in Nigeria.” SERAP is also asking the Federal
Government to: “disclose information on the exact number of tests that have
been carried out for high-ranking public officials and politicians, the number
of any such high-ranking public officials and politicians now in self-isolation
or quarantine, as well as the exact number of tests that have been carried out
for the country’s poorest and most vulnerable people.” In two
Freedom of Information requests sent to Dr Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health and
Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, Director General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control
(NCDC), SERAP said: “We are concerned about the lack of transparency in the use
of the funds and resources being mobilised to combat coronavirus, amid problems
accessing the NCDC’s website, and reports that authorities are prioritising home
testing of politicians, with some reportedly taking multiple tests.” According to SERAP: “politicians engaging in multiple tests for coronavirus have in turn slowed the number of tests for the country’s poorest and most vulnerable people.” UCH CMD, UI College of Medicine Provost, deputy test positive for Covid-19 In the FoI
requests dated 27 March, 2020 and signed by SERAP deputy director Kolawole
Oluwadare, the organization said: “We are concerned that lack of transparency
in the use of the funds and resources to combat COVID-19 would lead to
diversion or mismanagement of resources, unnecessarily cost lives, and result
in serious damage to public health in the country.” SERAP said:
“We urge you to disclose the level of enforcement for home quarantine system
for high-ranking public officials, politicians and the wealthy, and whether the
Ministry of Health and NCDC are carrying out spot checks to ensure strict
compliance by these people.” The FoI requests read, in part: “Transparency
and openness in the use of funds and operations of the Ministry of Health and NCDC
would help to reduce the risk of corruption or opportunism, build trust and
engage Nigerians in the fight against coronavirus as well as safe lives. Transparency
and accountability are important to implementing an effective response to
COVID-19 and slowing the spread of the virus in the country.” “Given the importance of good hygiene like
handwashing to any response to COVID-19, SERAP would like you to disclose
details of measures being put in place by the Ministry of Health, the NCDC and any
collaborative work with the Ministry of Water Resources to provide vulnerable
Nigerians with safe water, sanitation, and hygienic conditions.” “We are concerned that millions of Nigerians lack
access to an improved water source and to proper sanitation, thereby making
them vulnerable to COVID-19 and other illnesses.” “Handwashing and social distancing will be very
difficult to implement for the poorest and most vulnerable people in a country
where water shortages are routine and millions continue to drink contaminated
water.” “Limited availability of water in several public
hospitals across the country will also make it difficult for medical workers
and health professionals to wash their hands and will therefore make it
difficult for them to properly respond to COVID-19 and safe lives.” “We would be grateful if
the requested information is provided to us within 7 days of the receipt and/or
publication of this letter. If we have not heard from you by then, SERAP shall
take all appropriate legal actions under the Freedom of Information Act to
compel you to comply with our request.” “Any failure or refusal to provide the information
requested will also be clearly inconsistent with the letter and spirit of the
Freedom of Information Act.” “According
to our information, the Nigerian government has approved a N10 billion (Naira)
grant (about $27 million) to fight the spread of coronavirus in the country. The
government has also reportedly released N5 billion (Naira) (about $13 million)
special intervention fund to the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC).” “Also, banks,
wealthy members of the private sector and foundations have also donated billions
of Naira to help fund medical centers and provide essential materials necessary
to curtail the spread of coronavirus in the country.” “By Section 1 (1) of the
Freedom of Information (FoI) Act 2011, SERAP is entitled as of right to request
for or gain access to information, including information on the exact amount of
funds and resources meant to combat the spread of coronavirus in Nigeria.” “By Sections 2(3)(d)(V)
& (4) of the FoI Act, there is a binding legal duty to ensure that
documents containing information relating to the spending and operations to combat
the spread of coronavirus in Nigeria are widely disseminated and made readily
available to members of the public through various means.” “The information sought,
apart from not being exempted from disclosure under the FoI Act, bothers on an
issue of national interest, public concern, public health, interest of human
rights, social justice, good governance, transparency and accountability.” SERAP therefore urged the Minister and NCDC director to: 1.   
urgently
disclose details of exact funds and resources from federal government, state
governments and the private sector, as well as details of use and planned use
of any such funds and resources to combat the spread of
coronavirus in Nigeria 2.   
disclose
information on the exact number of tests that have been carried out for
high-ranking public officials and politicians, the number of any such
high-ranking public officials and politicians now in self-isolation or
quarantine, as well as the exact number of tests that have been carried out for
the country’s poorest and most vulnerable people 3.   
make Nigeria
Center for Disease Control (NCDC)’s website functional and accessible and publish
on your website and widely weekly spending on initiatives such procurement, testing,
early detection and isolation of confirmed cases, follow-up 4.   
Disclose
processes and procedures put in place to ensure that the funds and resources allocated
to combat COVID-19 are not diverted, stolen or mismanaged 5.   
Disclose measures to protect health workers and to encourage the country’s
poorest and most vulnerable people to come forward for testing and to escalate
testing for this group