Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the suspended National Chairman of the All Progress Congress, APC, has said that the only organ that can suspend hin as the National Chairman, is the  National Working Committee, NWC of the  National Executive Council, NEC and not even the ward. Oshiomhole, speaking on Thursday through Simon Ebegbulem, his media aide lamented that the court has no power to sack the National Chairman of the party saying: The issues of whether the court has the power to sack the National Chairman of the party is another issue. These are the issues. The whole thing is strange to us and that is the reason we have gone seek the court to interpret it because, according to the APC constitution, the only organ that can suspend the National Chairman, not even the ward, is the NWC of the NEC’ He went on to say:  “The next action as I said yesterday is that our lawyers have filed for Stay of Execution, and they have appealed that ruling, so the whole thing is before the court now. Let’s see how it turns out. Alleged $620,000 fuel subsidy scam: Farouk Lawan fails to open defence But, Oluwale Afolabi one of those who took Oshiomhole to court said that some aggrieved members of APC want Oshiomhole  removed as APC National Chairman. Afolabi said Oshiomhole can’t remain in office after he was suspended by his ward in Edo He said:  “Well, we came with the order because we believe in the rule of law, that is simply the reason why we are here to make sure that the constitution is respected. “Our contention is very simple; that Oshiomhole was suspended by his ward and if you are a suspended member, you can’t rip the benefit of full membership. “So all we are saying is that his rights as a member of APC is in abatement to the very minimum. So we just wanted the court to give voice to what people at his local ward have said.” An Abuja  Court had stopped Oshiomhole from parading himself as the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), pending the determination of a suit. Justice Danlami Senchi who granted the injunction on Wednesday, held that political parties must be bound by their constitution and having been suspended by his ward,  Oshiomhole is restrained from functioning as the National Chairman of the party pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit. The judge fixed hearing for April 7 and 8, 2020. In an ex-parte application filed by Mr Oluwole Afolayan on behalf of the National Vice Chairman, North East of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Mustapha Salihu, a factional Chairman of the APC in Edo state, Anselm Ojezua and others,is seeking a court-sanctioned removal of Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the party, from office. Earlier, Counsel to Oshiomhole and APC, Damian Dodo,SAN, noted that they had not been served and drew the Court’s attention to the Memorandum of Appearance and Undertaking to Accept Service of processes on behalf of the 1st & 2nd Defendants. Responding, Justice  Senchi stopped the move and ordered that the Defendants be put on notice to ensure a fair hearing in the matter. Justice Senchi ruled that the court will hear all parties instead of granting the ex-parte application to remove Oshiomhole as the National Chairman of the APC as requested by the Plaintiffs.