Ekiti state University student, Paul Bamikole retained his champion title of the Nigerian University Golf Tour at the prestigious Smokin Hills Golf Course in Ilara Mokin, Ondo State. Over 70 participants from 12 universities and two elementary and secondary schools participated at the annual National Universities Golf Tour with the 8th handicapper, reclaiming the title he won at the same venue in 2019. READ ALSO:  Turkish side Trabzonspor terminates John Obi Mikel contract Bamikole when asked how he felt, said “I am very delighted to have achieved this feat, the event was very competitive as there were a lot of great players here. “I think the hard work I have put in paid off for me. I hope to repeat this in the future,” said the Ekiti State University (EKSU) student golfer. Manager of the Smokin Hills Golf facility, Bayo Aderinto, added that the tournament was conceptualised five years ago to stimulate interest of the youths in the game and also as a relevant skill for integration at the workplace and marketplace after graduation. According to him, “Golf is a social skill and we believe it gives the players some measures of advantage, that is why we are passionate in getting as many university as possible to catch on to it as a skill to hand to the youths. “Again, at Smokin Hills, which is arguably the best golf facility in the country, this event is our social responsibility and one of our development agenda for the game,” he added. Participated universities included; Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile -Ife (OAU), Federal University, Dutse, University of Ibadan (UI), Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Ekiti State University (EKSU), I- Tree International School Ilorin and Arandun Grammar School, Ilorin, among others. Monday Adefila emerged winner in the Caddies category, while Ayo Adebumiti came second. Among the members that played along in the event as guest players were Banji Otitoju, who shot 94 gross to top the category, while golfer Olukayode Daisi came second with 93 gross, leaving Lawani Biodun, who shot 100 gross shots to the third place. Mrs Evelyn Balogun won the female category of the guest players, while Mr Akin Falodun went home with the Veteran prize.