The African Centre for Educational Development (CLEDA Africa) has urged Federal and State Governments to adopt proactive measures to enhance deployment of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in education for effective service delivery. Mr. Daniels Akpan, Executive Director of the organisation, made the call in a telephone interview with Our Correspondent, on Sunday in Kaduna. Akpan, who is also the Co-Chair, African Education Forum,
spoke in reaction to the shutdown of academic activities in the country to curb
the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. He said the development would impact negatively on the
pupils, teachers, students and lecturers, pointing out that most schools were
at the verge of examinations when they were closed. The director noted that pupils and students were currently
idling at home, following the stay at home order, adding that the trend
would  create a major setback in the
progress of education in the country. He added that so far, about 1.5 billion students, representing 87.1 per cent of learners in 165 countries across the world had been affected by the closure of schools. Uzodinma inaugurates 7-man taskforce on fifth clearing in Owerri According to him, while technology is being deployed in
developed countries to bridge the gap, learners in Nigeria and most African
countries are idling at home. “Nigeria’s education system has no adequate provisions for
the use of technology and other innovations to keep students learning during
emergencies and prevent academic activities from coming to a standstill. “This disturbing situation will have been averted if the
utilisation of ICT in education delivery in the country has been massive. “Therefore, there is the need for the Federal and State
governments to begin massive deployment of innovations and technology
infrastructure in education delivery system in the country. “Teachers must also be trained on how to use technology,
which is cost efficient in the delivery of instruction to students wherever
they are, either at school or home,” he said. Akpan advised the government to take advantage of the
opportunities presented by ICT for distance learning to take place, especially
in the face of social distancing. He said the smart move would mitigate future occurrence of a
total shutdown of education activities in the country.