…As Senate orders partial closure of National Assembly …Lawan tells returnee senators to go for testing The Federal Government has ordered closure of tertiary institutions and unity schools across the nation as a measure to check Coronavirus. Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. “We have directed all higher institutions to close this weekend. Unity Schools that have completed their exams are to close immediately. Others are to hurry and close the latest on 26th March,” he said in a statement. The Federal Government has also directed the principals of unity colleges nationwide to shut down. “The Federal Government has ordered the closure of all the 104 Unity Schools in the country on the 26th of March, 2020 as a proactive step aimed at preventing the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus,” Ben Goong, director of press in the Ministry of Education, said in a statement. “Giving the order today (Thursday) through the Permanent Secretary, Arc Sonny Echono, Education Minister, Adamu Adamu, said all the Principals of the Unity Colleges should fast track the on-going second term examinations and close shop until further notice. “In the meantime, the Minister said the management of all the Unity Colleges should immediately activate the necessary emergency procedures and processes such as the provision of alcohol based sanitizers, and hand washing facilities among others, adding that students should strictly adhere to the principles and best practices of good hygiene.” The principals were directed to immediately report any suspicious case to the nearest health authorities. Meanwhile, the Senate on Thursday adopted partial closure of the parliament as Coronavirus scare heightened, just as Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, advised senators who had just returned from foreign trips to go for test. During plenary on Thursday, Lawan announced the decision of the Senate to suspend public hearings and restrict access to its chamber over growing concerns of Coronavirus (COVID-19) spread in the country. The announcement came after the Senate embarked on a closed session at the resumption of plenary to deliberate on the devastating impact which a spread of the disease may cause in the absence of preventive measures. “The Senate resolves to suspend all public hearings till further notice as a result of the Coronavirus, COVID-19. “In addition, the Senate gallery will remain closed to the public till further notice including excursions from schools and organisations from Tuesday 24th of March, 2020,” Lawan said. To guide against the outbreak of the pandemic virus in the upper chamber, the Senate urged lawmakers who just returned from foreign trips to go for Coronavirus test. Lawan also said the lawmakers should self isolate themselves for 14 days before appearing in the chamber for legislative business. Lawan stated this during an executive session before the commencement of plenary on Thursday. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Sen Godiya Akwasiki (Nasarawa North), who revealed this while briefing the Senate press corps, said the President of the Senate had asked all lawamakers who recently returned from foreign trips to ensure they carry out test and also isolate themselves for two weeks. Akawsiki said: “The last question which is difficult a one to answer, but I answer you, that some lawmakers, who just returned from America, from Canada, from United Kingdom, from Ghana, why they did not self quarantine, before coming to National Assembly. “We are taking measures on that, it is some of those things that we discussed at the Senate closed session. “Senate President announced to all the 109 senators, in fact, he urged those that just returned to the country to go and test themselves from tomorrow. “In fact, he said as leaders we should show examples to others.” On if the National Assembly would shut down because of COVID-19, he said some senators had at the executive session called for the shutting down of National Assembly. Akwasiki, however, said if for any reasons, the COVID-19 situation gets out of hand, the leadership would not hesitate to shut down National Assembly for some time, for safety of Nigerians. On why President Muhammadu Buhari was yet to address the nation on COVID-19 situation, despite Senate resolution, he said there were procedures for the President to address the nation via the television. He, however, said if in the next one week, the President does not address the nation, the leadership of National Assembly would engage the executive.