The House of Representatives on Wednesday passed the 2019 appropriation
bill of N346.388 billion for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). This was sequel to a unanimous adoption of the report presented by the Chairman,
House Committee on NDDC, Rep. Olubumi Tunji-Ojo on the NDDC 2019 budget at the
Committee on Supply. Also, the House approved an overhead expenditure of N13.4 billion, N4.08
billion for internal capital expenditure and N306.6 billion for development
projects. Addressing journalists after the passage of the bill, Rep. Tunji-Ojo
said that the implementation of the budget was expected to end by May 31, as
the House will soon commence the process of approving the NDDC 2020 budget. He explained that in the past, the NDDC had been running its budget in
arrears, but the 9th House of Representatives insisted things must
be done properly. Rep. Tunji -Ojo said that the House insisted that the 2019 and 2020
budgets be submitted to the House, which was done late last year, explaining
that that the House must pass the 2019 budget before that of 2020 in line with
legislative best practices. “We are starting work immediately on the 2020 budget and in no time, may
be by next month, we should have gone far enough to pass it on or before May
2020. “It is our desire that by June, the NDDC should have started running a
normal budget circle again,” he said. The lawmaker assured that the House will ensure proper implementation of the budget even though the commission has a good track record for budget implementation. Police seek 4 men over coronavirus attack on Singapore student He noted that the 2018 NDDC budget had an implementation rate of 98 per
cent and that in spite of the NDDC’s track record on efficient budget implementation,
the committee would perform its oversight function seriously. According to the lawmaker, the committee would ensure that the quality
of work done by the commission meets international standards, adding that the
Niger Delta region is very important to the country. “This is the House of the people that is why we are here; we stand for
nothing, but the interest of the people and it is our desire that every kobo of
the Niger Delta is used for the people of the region. “You can be sure that under my chairmanship, we will not shy away from
that responsibility and we hope that by this time next year, we will not be
talking about this,” Tunji-Ojo said.