The House of
Representatives on Wednesday urged the federal government to establish a joint
security task force to address kidnapping and other forms of criminality along
the Lokoja-Abuja highway. The call followed
the unanimous adoption of a motion by Rep. Shaba Ibrahim drawing attention to
the level of insecurity on the expressway. Moving the motion, Rep.
Ibrahim said that the security and welfare of the people was the primary
purpose of government under Section 14(2)(b) of the 1999 Constitution. The House member said
the Kogi Local Government Area, situated on the ever busy Lokoja-Abuja highway
was strategic by virtue of its nearness to the Federal Capital Territory. He expressed
concern over the increasing rate of kidnappings, killings and armed robbery on
the highway, adding that more than 45 people have been killed in over 84 cases
reported between March 17 and December 5, 2019. “Twenty- five people were reportedly kidnapped between Ahoko and Adabo along the highway and in January 2020 alone, more than 96 people have been kidnapped and 12 people out of the number lost their lives, including a teenager. Atiku eulogizes Olusegun Obasanjo at 83 “Farming activities
in villages in the area are at their lowest ebb because of fear of attacks as
kidnappings and killings are recorded on a daily basis. “On January 3, in
Tawari Village alone, more than 21 people were brutally killed by gunmen
leaving 100 others hospitalised while Beji Village in the same local government
area was completely destroyed,” he declared. The lawmaker noted
that there were bad spots on the highway that provide opportunity for
kidnappers to carry out their evil activities and demanded that kidnapping and
banditry must be addressed with the seriousness they deserve. Therefore, the House
urged the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to clear the bushes on the
highway in order not to provide safe haven for criminals. It also urged the
Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) to urgently commence repair of the bad
spots on the road, especially between Abaji and Gegu. Speaker Femi
Gbajabiamila mandated the House Committees on Legislative Compliance and
National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance.