The  loss of the governorship seat it had already won, following  discrepancies in the identity of the governorship running mate, may have  started having negative effects on the All Progressives Congress (APC)  in Bayelsa State, as crisis may have hit the party, a former Minister of  State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri  and Preye Aganaba are among 14 other leaders of the party suspended by  the party in the state for alleged anti-party activities. Lokpobiri and Aganaba both took part in the September 4, 2019  governorship election in the state. But  a chieftain of the party in the state, Christopher Abariowei, has  described the purported suspension of the two governorship aspirants of  the party as a ruse which cannot hold. Kebbi’s first lady hails FG on cancer control chain Others
 also suspended are Warman Ogoriba, Orubebe Ogeibiri, C.T. Olorogun, 
Pius Otia,  Osomkime Blankson, Samuel Aredeh, Ebierien Itubo, Peres 
Peretu, Sunday Frank-Oputu, Azikiwe Amasigha and Fortune Panebi. Lokpobiri
 and Aganaba challenged the outcome of the primary that produced David 
Lyon as the candidate of the APC for the polls in court. But
 the court ruled against them, affirming Lyon as the authentic candidate
 of the party for the November 16, 2019 governorship election. Lyon 
progressed to win the election. But
 the Supreme Court stopped him on the eve of his inauguration as 
governor because the deputy governor-elect Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo 
submitted questionable certificates to the Independent National 
Electoral Commission. Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who came second in the election, became governor. In
 a statement in Yenagoa, spokesman for the  APC in the state, Doifie 
Buokoribo, said their suspension followed the report of the disciplinary
 committee set up on July 31, 2019, to probe allegations of anti-party 
activities leveled against them. Buokoribo
 said the panel was constituted in accordance with Article 21, 
Sub-section B and D of the APC constitution, 2014 (as amended). He
 said, “The State Executive Committee of the party objectively looked 
into the several allegations of anti-party activities leveled against 
them that ran contrary to the provisions of the APC constitution, 
morally and good conscience, which brought about great electoral 
misfortune. “The
 action is to send signal to deviants masquerading in the party, 
especially those working against its collective interest and 
aspirations.” But,
 Abariowei said the purported suspension of the duo and some chieftains 
of the party in the state by those he described as a faction of the 
party was uncalled for and should be reversed in the general interest of
 the party and Bayelsans. A
 faction of the party led by Jothan Amos and the State Secretary, Alabo 
Martins led over 27 signatories of the party to endorse the suspension 
and forward same to the National Vice Chairman of the party, 
South-South, Chief Ntufam Hilliard Eta. According
 to the statement signed by Doife Bukoriibo, the committee objectively 
looked into the several allegations of anti-party activities leveled 
against them that allegedly ran contrary to the provision of the APC 
constitution. According
 to them, “The action was to set clear signals to deviants masquerading 
in the party especially those working against its collective interest 
and aspirations. We, however, thank Bayelsans and its numerous 
supporters for keeping faith with the party and for the above solidarity
 during and after the November 16th, 2019 governorship elections.” But
 Abariowei, emphasised that what the party and Bayelsans need now is a 
united and vibrant opposition to cure the wound of having a government 
they never voted for. He
 said, “We have just witnessed a near success syndrome situation where 
the Supreme Court painfully aborted and killed an already born child 
when the November 16, 2019 election won by the APC. That debilitating 
experience should call for sober reflection rather than fanning the 
ember of disunity. “As
 for Engr. Preye Aganaba, he as one of the leaders of the party who 
withdrew his case in the court with his support base visibly involved in
 the process before, during and after the election that produced David 
Lyon as the Governor-elect. “His inclusion, therefore, must have been in my opinion a misplaced conclusion on the part of the party.”