…As lawmakers set up reconciliation committee by Patrick Okohue As the crisis rocking the Lagos State House of Assembly eading to the suspension of two members and removing of two princinpal officers remains unresolved, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, has insisted that the political empire of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in Lagos remains intact and strong.  This even as the House has set up a reconciliation committee to look into the crisis and resolve the matter. Obasa made the statement on Wednesday night following reported insinuations of friction between him and Bayo Oshinowo, a former member of the state Assembly and current senator representing Lagos East at the National Assembly. Don queries validity of federal character principle According to the Speaker, instilling discipline among members of the State House of Assembly does not equate with friction in any form between him and members of the party. Obasa stressed that Asiwaju Tinubu has gone through a lot building the APC in Lagos and Nigeria adding that nobody in his right senses would do anything to be a clog in the wheel of the party’s progress. “Tinubu remains everything to the continued success of the party he built from the scratch and nurtured up to this moment. “It is unarguable that his resilience, love for democracy, passion to see his foot-soldiers grow and belief in discipline cannot be measured.” Obasa maintained that the party in Lagos remains united and that what happened recently at the House of Assembly involving the removal of two principal officers and the suspension of two others was a measure to ensure that the legislature remains strengthened and its sanctity maintained. “The legislature must remain strong at all times, especially in relation to Nigeria’s democracy because it is often the hardest hit when issues in the democratic journey pop up. “This is why during plenary on Monday, March 9, 2020, I made this proclamation: ”The parliament is a heartbeat of every democratic system, its sanctity, integrity and positive reputation should be guided and protected, hence discipline is a key and where it is lacking, the hope of the people fizzle.” To further prove that the House of Assembly is united, Obasa said 33 members of the House sat at plenary on Tuesday with the newly elected principal officers including the deputy leader carrying out their tasks as expected. The Speaker further denied any rift between him and Oshinowo, popularly called Pepper, who he described as a friend, mentor and with whose support he had excelled in legislative activities. Emphasising this cordial relationship, Obasa said he was with Oshinowo on Tuesday and that they both drove in his convoy. “I was the one that dropped Senator Oshinowo off on his way to Abuja yesterday. If there was a rift between us, will that happen?” The Speaker asked. Announcing the setting up the committee, headed by Hon. Ibrahim Layode (Badagry Constituency 1) to look into the matter surrounding the action of the Assembly, after a parliamentary meeting of the lawmakers on Thursday, Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Publicity, Strategy and Security, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, stated that conflicts were inherent part of human nature and that when they come, there are mechanism to resolve them. “Those who are being reprimanded are our colleagues, they are not outcasts, and we belong to the same political party. “We are mindful that the image of the House is at stake and we want to tell you that the people affected are not outcasts, they are our colleagues. “The committee headed by Hon. Ibrahim Layode is looking at the amicable solution to the matter. “All the issues about offices, access and others would be addressed by the committee,” he said Braimoh added at a media briefing, which was witnessed by most members of the House, including the Speaker and other Principal Officers, that the way the two suspended principal officers were replaced was done normally. He stated that the only two offices that were constitutionally recognised were those of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker, and that others are done in-house. “They are nothing to worry about, they were done accordingly. All that we did were done according to Order 10 Rules 68 to 72 of the Business Rules of the House. “We are in the process of conflict resolution. We don’t want to talk about what constitute gross insubordination and indiscipline. “All the negativity that they are spreading about is exaggerated. There would be conflict and this is part of any society. That does not mean there is a sharp division or there is break down of law and order in the House,” he said. He added that in law, it is believed that the fact of a matter speaks for itself, insisting that all is well with the Lagos State House of Assembly. “The Speaker is here, the Deputy Speaker is here, all the Principal officers are here and all the other lawmakers are here, apart from those that have other things to do and those that are under suspension that are not here. “There is no problem that is beyond solution. It is just that when things are working there could be some disagreement here and there, that does not mean that we will go for the jugular,” he said. Also speaking, the new Deputy Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Noheem Adams said that his emergence as the Deputy Majority Leader of the House was based on the decision of the House, and that he was not desperate to be the Deputy Majority Leader. The new Chief Whip of the Assembly, Hon. Mojisola Miranda stated that the House is one big family, and that there was no quarrel amongst the lawmakers. She added that she was not desperate for the office and that it was a call to service.