As part of efforts to find a lasting solution to the negative
state of affairs, while providing solutions to the deepening resentment and
escalating violent encounters between the Police and young Nigerians, Sterling
Bank has hosted a bridge building session on the opening day of Social Media
Week Lagos 2020. Tagged “Social Media Wars: Dreads, Tattoos and Passwords”, the session moderated by broadcaster Gbemisola Olateru-Olagbegi, had the Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Abubakar Suleiman; former Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Dolapo Badmos; Ace Rapper, Micheal Stephens, popularly known as “Ruggedman” and Convener, #EndSARS Campaign, Segun Awosanya “Segalink” on the top side of the conversation. Coronavirus: Students, visitors screened at Lagos Polytechnic Setting
 the tone for the conversation, Suleiman said the hot topic was 
considered in the best interest of the country and her promising,
highly enterprising and energetic youth. He said profiling any person as
criminal for wearing dreadlocks or tattoos are wrong, and such labelling
 can
only be addressed by important and truthful conversations among all
stakeholders. Opening the conversation, Badmos commended Sterling Bank for
hosting the session aimed at fostering peaceful relations between the police
and the general public. “What Sterling Bank has done is commendable. It shows
that the Bank recognizes that preventing anarchy and enhancing security is
everybody’s businesses. This innovation will forever linger in the heart of
Nigerians, especially the youth.” The former Lagos PPRO attributed the profiling of youths
with tattoos and dreads as criminals by officers of the Nigerian
Police Force to the difference in culture and values, adding that
Nigerian police are work in progress and will evolve in line
with global trends. On his part, Awosanya said
the usual social media controversy over attacks of defenceless Nigerians by
police officers and use of force against the youth are not unconnected to
the many years of military rule which make many officers see
leadership as a show of control by force. He, however, enjoined Nigerians to rise to the challenge of
leadership by seeking to correct the many anomalies in the country. He said; “we must redefine
leadership so everyone takes up the challenge of correcting the many anomalies
we have seen.” Corroborating Awosanya, Stephens said he believed
everyone must take responsibility to make the change they seek in the
Nigerian Police happen. The popular musician noted that Nigerians must be
their brothers’ keeper in order to contain the challenge of repressive
leadership and institutions facing the populace.”