Abuja – Justice Samira Bature of the an FCT High Court sitting in Maitama, on Monday granted an interim order permitting Chief Victor Giadom,the current Acting National Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), to act as the National Chairman of the party. The judge granted the order in a motion ex-parte, marked FCT/HC/M/6447/2020, filed by APC National Vice Chairman (North-East), Comrade Mustapha Salihu, which was argued by his counsel, O.C. Ugwu, Esq. Joined as defendants in the motion are Babatunde Ogala; Lanre Issa-Onilu; Waziri Bulama and the party, APC. Salihu had approached the court, through the exparte motion, seeking for an interim order allowing Giadom to pilot the affairs of the party . And also, as acting chairman and to preside at all meetings of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) pending the decision of the party’s NEC fixed for March 17. The applicant also sought an interim order restraining the APC and its officers or anyone purporting to act as an officer of the 4th defendant (APC) from preventing or in any way disturbing Giadom from functioning as the acting chairman. He added, unless otherwise decided by the NEC of the party pending the hearing of the motion on notice. After listening to the motion as argued by Ugwu, Justice Bature granted the interim order as prayed. “Application is hereby granted as prayed,” the judge ordered. Bature then adjourned the matter until March 20 for hearing. Oyetola commends student for winning best Nigerian scientist contest On Friday the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Yekini Nabena, has faulted the endorsement of Chief Victor Giadom as replacement for the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole saying that  Victor Giadom tendered his resignation letter to the National Working Committee (NWC) to contest the 2019 election as the Party’s Deputy Governorship candidate in Rivers State. Yekini Nabena said: “I call on members of our party and the public to disregard the so-called zonal caucus meeting which held on Thursday at the Edo State Governor’s Lodge in Abuja. “The meeting was neither convened nor attended by the APC National Vice Chairman (South South), Hilliard Eta and Leader of the party in the South-South, Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege. “Hence, all decisions reached at the purported meeting is a nullity and definitely does not reflect the views and stand of the Party’s South South caucus. “Specifically, on the purported meeting’s request that the APC National Executive Committee  confirm Victor Giadom as acting National Chairman, we cannot be taken for a ride because of the political and 2023 presidential aspirations of his (Giadom’s) sponsor and godfather who is attempting to control the Party’s structure. “It should be known that Victor Giadom tendered his resignation letter to the National Working Committee (NWC) to contest the 2019 election as the Party’s Deputy Governorship candidate in Rivers State. “It is strange and an aberration that he still attends meetings of the NWC, occupies the office of Deputy National Secretary and convenes a NEC meeting. “ In our politicking, we must not lose sight of due process and the dictates of the Party’s constitution.”