The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, 
Mrs Zainab Ahmed, has warned that Nigeria may go into recession if the 
coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues for the next couple of months. She stated this during her appearance on Channels Television’s Politics Today where she gave an update on measures taken to mitigate the effect of coronavirus on the nation’s economy. “We are hopeful that this pandemic will be limited in time,” the minister said during the interview on Friday. She
 added, “If it is an average of three months, we should be able to close
 the year with positive growth. But if it goes longer than that – six 
months, one year – we will go into recession.” According  to Ahmed, the Federal and the state governments will struggle in terms  of revenue, as long as the crude oil price is as low as $30 and sub-$30  per barrel. COVID-19 : FG to upgrade Oyo, Abakaliki, Maiduguri laboratories to ensure prompt case management She
 explained that this was why the government was looking for alternative 
sources of funding in the form of budget support to boost the economy 
towards the trying times. As part of measures to curb the spread 
of coronavirus and reduce its effect on the economy, the minister noted 
that President Muhammadu Buhari set up the Presidential Task Force on 
COVID-19. She believes the committee, comprising key Ministries,  Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) and chaired by the Secretary of the  Government of the Federation (SGF), is up to the tasked. Ahmed also spoke about the 
recommendations of a former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, to support 
Nigerians in the course of the pandemic. Atiku had proposed the 
distribution of N10,000 to 30 million households as foodstuff 
supplements, reduction of the petrol pump price, and suspension of stamp
 duty. The former vice president had also called for the provision
 of N1,500 free airtime to 100 million mobile phone lines for emergency 
calls. In her response, the minister said the government has noted Atiku’s recommendations but the consequences were being considered. The
 government, according to her, is looking at the possibility of giving 
out stipend and to increase the stipend that it is already giving out to
 the category of Nigerians that are classified as the poor and 
vulnerable. Ahmed said, “What we are doing is to make sure that we
 are able to respond to the health crisis because if it gets out of 
hand, it has also a direct impact on the economy and we have so far 
shown that the country is able to respond adequately to the health 
crisis. “Health facilities are being upgraded; we have found 
resources that we can put to also further upgrade. If we don’t respond 
adequately to the health crisis, the impact on the economy will be 
worse.”