From an estimated 200 million Nigeria’s population, not less than a 80 million Nigerians now have access to high-speed internet together with the volume associated with broadband networks. This increase represents about 40 per cent broadband
penetration in the country, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy,
Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami made this known in Abuja at a dinner hosted by
the Swedish Ambassador to Nigeria, Carl-Michael Grans. The NCC, in a statement, stated that Dr Pantami, who was
represented by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications
Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, says Nigeria has embarked on a digital
transformation journey and efforts are ongoing to ensure evacuation of the
massive data capacity at landing points to the hinterland. “We have a plan to move the massive capacity from the landing
point to the hinterland. To do that, we know we have to put in place the necessary
infrastructure that will facilitate it. We would, therefore, like the Swedish
Government to buy into this great idea of deploying this massive broadband
infrastructure which is fibre-driven,” he said. The
 Minister,
however, noted that with the country’s population close to 200 million, 
the government would not rest on its laurels until all of them have 
access to high
speed internet as well as the volume associated with the network. On the internet
penetration, Dr Pantami observed that figures recently released by the NCC
indicate that almost 125 million Nigerians have access, but lamented that close
to 31 million Nigerians are still within unserved and underserved areas. Nigeria achieved
its 5-year National Broadband target of 30 per cent in December 2018 and since
then the level of penetration has remained steady. Pantami had earlier
inaugurated a 25-man committee to develop a new national broadband plan with
the aim of scaling up broadband penetration to over 70 per cent in the next
five years. According to the
minister, pervasive broadband penetration will make Nigeria a truly digital
economy.