.Says 13-year-old boy only suffered motion sickness A thirteen year old first-time flyer accompanied by his parents suffered from flight nausea and vomited in an Air Peace aircraft while it was airborne which made the captain in Command inform air traffic control and Port Health before the flight landed at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano. Air Peace in a
a statement said they did not airlift any passenger suspected of being infected
with Coronavirus on its Lagos-Kano flight on Tuesday. The airline
explained that a 13-year-old boy who was accompanied by his parents but flying
for the first time suffered from flight phobia and vomited in the aircraft
while the aircraft was airborne. According to the
airline, unfortunately, some officials at the airport made a video of the
aircraft when it arrived and shared it on the social media and misinformed the
public that the aircraft had a COVID-19 suspect. Air Peace
disclosed that the flight waited for about 50 minutes so that officials from
Port Health Authority would attend to the boy. Port Health has
also confirmed that the boy suffered from flight phobia and disclosed that
after interviewing the parents they disclosed that the boy vomits even when he
travels by road to school, adding that when he was tested the test showed
negative. The Chief
Operating Officer of Air Peace, Mrs Toyin Olajide who made this known said
that as it has become a tradition, the airline’s COVID-19 team sanitize and
check the temperature of every passenger and gives approval before he is
allowed to board the airline’s flight. She also
disclosed that the aircraft was again disinfected by Port Health Authorities at
the Kano airport before passengers were checked in to Abuja. “We did not
carry any passenger that has COVID-19. What happened was that a 13-year-old boy
was travelling by air for the first time. He was with his parents. While
airborne he started vomiting. The pilot promptly called Port Health, even when
it was obvious that he was suffering from flight phobia. “The Captain
also informed the Control Tower about the incident but when the aircraft some
people made a video of the aircraft and started circulating false information
about what really happened”,  Mrs.
Olajide said.