Lagos – The Lagos Chapter of the Actors’ Guild of Nigeria (AGN), on Thursday condemned the absence of some stakeholders from decision making meetings. The chapter in reaction to calls for the removal of Sen. Elisha Abbo as AGN patron frowned at the stakeholders in a statement signed by AGN Lagos Chapter spokesperson, Bigdeal Omoruyi. Abbo, a Senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial District was earlier in the week conferred the AGN patron which some actors kicked against. The statement further condemned the stakeholders’ absenteeism and subsequent condemnation of decisions taken. “Actors’ Guild of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter has received inundated calls and messages as regard the controversy of Sen. Elisha Abbo being conferred a Patron of the Actors’ Guild of Nigeria. Housewife drags husband to court over N300 for upkeep of 8 children “The position of the President, the National and State chapters executives and the members of Actors’ Guild of Nigeria is clear on the matter. The Guild’s President, Emeka  Ejezie, said in a statement that Sen Elisha Abbo remained innocent of physically assaulting a young woman until proven otherwise by a court. “The President also said that AGN appointed Abbo patron due to his support for the guild’s members in the north east chapters. “Chairman of AGN Lagos state Chapter, Moji Oyetayo circulated a voice note stating that it is unacceptable for Actors to be absent at conferences where the fate of the Guild is decided, yet go public to fault decisions made. “An urgent meeting notice of all stakeholders has however been circulated by the National Secretary of AGN. “The meeting is slated for Monday, March 23 at Native Restaurant and Lounge, Victor Island, Lagos, by 11 am. “The objective of the meeting is essentially to tackle the much heated controversy and discuss members’ welfare. “All actors nationwide are welcome to attend,” the statement said. Nigerian actresses, Hilda Dokubo and Kate Henshaw have condemned the conferment of Abbo as patron. Abbo was allegedly caught on camera assaulting one Warmate Osimibibra, the attendant at a sex toys shop in May 2019, a month before he was sworn in as a senator. The senator however issued a public apology to his victim during which he asked her and Nigerians for forgiveness. (NAN)