An economists and member of the Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, Prof. Mike Obadan has urged the federal government to set up a covid-19 economic relief fund immediately. He  said that the relief fund which will be coordinate by the federal government through  the finance ministry will aid in mobilizing funds from stakeholders and  private individuals. U.S. coronavirus cases could reach millions, top health official says He was speaking
as a guest on a breakfast programme “Good morning Nigeria” on the Nigerian
Television Authority an monitored by Daily Times. Obadan said both
fiscal and monetary measures currently taken to cushion the effect of the
covid-19  did not take cognizance of
group of people that will not be working during a lockdown, as they will
eventually, add to the unemployment rate “US government
took cognizance of such group of people as so many people went to the unemployment
when the government ordered a shutdown. ‘This is why the
government put up a $2 trillion stimulus bill and taken cognizance of all these
category of individuals. However, both the CBN and the federal government have not
taken cognizance of such groups and there is a void,” he said. He recalled that
stakeholders have begun making contributions towards containing the coronavirus
through monetary, food supplies, equipment’s and drugs, as CBN bankers
committee has announced. He however urged
the federal government to go further by setting up a relief fund and coordinate
funds that will serve those that will be affected at the macro level. “What can be
done in fiscal measures is that FG can coordinate the mobilization of funds
from stakeholders and a situation where we have a coronavirus economic relief the fund is established and Fg coordinates. “Stakeholders
are enjoined or requested to contribute and then FG will sit down and decide on
how to meet the need of the vulnerable which have not been catered for in the
macro policies, “The
 monetary
policy measures meet a group of people and the government needs an 
economic relief the fund, I say this because FG has noticeable 
challenges in the area of revenue
and if you lock down economy, we cannot talk of generating more income 
and the
capacity would have reduced and so we have to rely on stakeholders,” he 
said.