Peter Fowoyo, Lagos Four days to the meeting of the National Executive Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos on Thursday ordered that the meeting must not go on except a former Oyo state Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, Waziri Bulama and Paul Chukwuma are allowed to attend.  Justice Mohammed Liman, restrained the APC and its officials from disturbing, preventing or obstructing Bulama, Ajimobi and Chukwuma from carrying out their duties as acting national secretary, acting national deputy chairman (south) and acting national auditor of the APC respectively. READ ALSO: Bello inaugurates Kogi electoral commission ahead LG poll Justice Liman’s orders followed an ex parte application filed by the Lagos state Chairman of the APC, Tunde Balogun, which was argued by his lawyer, Gani Bello. Balogun, in the application prayed the court to compel the APC to recognise Bulama as the party’s acting national secretary; Ajimobi, as the acting national deputy chairman (south) and Chukwuma, as the acting national auditor of the party. He told the court that after the three offices became vacant and were zoned to different geo-political zones, Bulama was nominated by the north-east; Ajimobi by the south-west and Chukwuma by the south-east. The Lagos state APC chairman said the nomination of Bulama was ratified at the meeting of the APC National Working Committee held on January 14, while those of Ajimobi and Chukwuma were ratified at the NWC meeting of March 4. “By virtue of the ratification stated above, the nominees have become members of the National Executive Council and are entitled by the constitution of the defendant (APC) to work and operate in acting capacities in their respective offices pending their swearing-in at the national convention of the party. “In spite of the foregoing, the defendant (APC), acting through its officials and officers, particularly, the deputy national secretary has not allowed the nominees to perform their duties as members of the National Executive Council,” Balogun said. He told the court that the APC National Executive Council cannot effectively operate unless Bulama, Ajimobi and Chukwuma were allowed to perform their duties. Balogun therefore, prayed the court to compel the APC to recognise them. Justice Liman granted the prayers and adjourned till March 25, to take the motion on notice.