The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) has announced a $3-billion facility, named Pandemic Trade Impact Mitigation Facility (PATIMFA), to help African countries deal with the economic and health impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. PATIMFA, approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors during its sitting on 20 March, will provide financing to assist Afreximbank member countries to adjust in an orderly manner to the financial, economic and health services shocks caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, according to information released by the Bank. READ ALSO:  COVID-19: NANS appeals to Nigerian students to obey restrictions Also,
it will support member country central banks, and other financial institutions
to meet trade debt payments that fall due and to avert trade payment defaults,
said Afreximbank. It
will also be available to support and stabilize the foreign exchange resources
of central banks of member countries, enabling them to support critical imports
under emergency conditions. Subsequently,
PATIMFA will assist member countries whose fiscal revenues are tied to specific
export revenues, such as mineral royalties, to manage any sudden fiscal revenue
declines as a result of reduced export earnings, and provide emergency trade
finance facilities for import of urgent needs to combat the pandemic, including
medicine, medical equipment, hospital refitting, etc. The
facility will be available through direct funding, lines of credit, guarantees,
cross-currency swaps and other similar instruments, according to Afreximbank.
Explaining the rationale for the facility, Prof. Benedict Oramah, President of
Afreximbank noted that the COVID-19 pandemic brought with it considerable
suffering and major economic disruptions. “Besides
its worrying effect on human life, the pandemic is projected to cost the global
economy up to $1 trillion and to result in a significant 0.4 per cent decline
in global GDP growth, which is expected to drop from 2.9 per cent in 2019 to
2.5 per cent in 2020,” he said.

“A
rapid and impactful financial response is required to avert a major crisis in
Africa,” he said, pointing out that “Africa is exposed in many fronts,
including significant declines in tourism earnings, migrant remittances,
commodity prices and the disruption of manufacturing supply chains. “Afreximbank
had already seen sharp pandemic-induced declines in commodity prices, a sudden
significant drop in tourism earnings, disruptions in supply chains, and closure
of export manufacturing facilities,” said the President. The
impact on medical supplies and medical systems in many markets had also been
unprecedented. He
said that Afreximbank would work with multilateral development banks that had
put in place financial assistance programmes in order to secure support to help
African countries deal with adverse external shocks and crises arising from the
pandemic.