Three years after the 
trauma of being raped by a stranger while jogging outside a university 
campus, American swimmer Nancy Hogshead-Makar lit up the 1984 Olympic 
Games in Los Angeles by winning three gold medals and a silver. Today,  the 57-year-old lawyer, mother and activist devotes her life towards  the fight for gender equality and the battle against sexual abuse in  sport. I’ve not discussed 2023 ambition with anyone – Kogi speaker In an interview with AFP ahead of International Women’s 
Day on March 8, Hogshead-Makar says she remains “unrealistically 
optimistic” about her work and life in general. “I guess you have 
to be in order to try to win in the Olympics and try to address sexual 
abuse in sports,” Hogshead-Makar said. “They’re pretty audacious goals.” The
 day before the interview, Hogshead-Makar had been working until the 
early hours drafting a letter to the US Congress about bipartisan 
legislation that calls for tougher protections for amateur athletes 
against abuse by coaches and employees. Hogshead-Makar’s work 
ethic mirrors the dedication that formed the cornerstone of her swimming
 career — from the age of 11, she would spend four hours a day churning
 the waters of her training pool. “My winning formula was to compete,” Hogshead-Makar said. “That’s how I was successful in life.” After
 retiring from swimming, the Iowa native channelled her energy into 
helping others. After becoming a lawyer, she focused on campaigning for 
gender equality and combating sexual abuse in sport. – ‘Profoundly broken’ – For
 decades, Hogshead-Makar did not talk publicly about the traumatic 
events that occurred in the autumn of 1981 when she was 19. While out jogging outside the campus of Duke University in North Carolina, she was raped by a stranger. “I
 felt profoundly broken. I felt forsaken by God. I was scared all the 
time,” said Hogshead-Makar, who suffered from post-traumatic stress 
disorder for months after the attack. “I thought that I could overcome it by willing it away.” Hogshead-Makar said she benefited from two things that many sexual assault victims don’t receive. “Number
 one, everybody around me believed that it happened,” she said. “Number 
two, people believed in the depth of my emotional harm. Nobody told me, 
‘Just get over it’.” With help and support from loved ones, 
coaches, Duke faculty and administrators, she rebuilt her life but kept 
the attack private. “I didn’t talk about it for 20 years because I would have started to cry; I wasn’t quite healed enough,” Hogshead-Makar said. Eventually,
 a friend and mentor, the human rights activist Richard Lapchick, 
suggested that talking publicly about her experience as a rape survivor 
could be a way to help others. “He said, ‘You really need to start
 talking about your own experience’,” Hogshead-Makar said. “And he was 
right. It made me a better advocate.” “My hope is that other, older women with great lives will disclose this part of their story.” – Gender equity – In her efforts to foster change in Olympic sports in the United States, she’s drawing from her experience as an elite swimmer. Hogshead-Makar believes that the nature of competitive swimming fosters equality. “It’s
 no coincidence that some of the best gender equity advocates come from 
the sport of swimming because we see equality,” she said. “I 
trained almost exclusively with guys. I was accustomed to having things 
be fair. We swam lap-for-lap and we lifted weight-for-weight.” There have however been cases of questionable behavior. One
 of Hogshead-Makar’s former coaches, Mitch Ivey, was suspended from the 
sport for life in 2013 after evidence emerged of improper sexual 
relationships with multiple swimmers he had coached. “The 
boundaries are just not well spelled out the way they are for 
counselors, religious leaders or lawyers or teachers,” says 
Hogshead-Makar, who has founded the advocacy group Champion Women. In
 2012, the United States Olympic Committee ordered all its member 
federations to ban intimate relationships between coaches and athletes, 
regardless of age and consent. Hogshead-Makar however says the 
message still needs to be reinforced. She estimates that only 0.5 
percent of swimmers and 1.4 percent of their parents have received 
adequate training to safeguard against the problem. To raise 
awareness on the issue, Hogshead-Makar is working on a social media 
campaign with Child USA, a non-profit which works to end child abuse and
 neglect in the United States. She was also heavily involved in 
the effort to set up the US Center for SafeSport, the first independent 
organization to combat sexual and physical violence in Olympic sports, 
which launched in 2017.