As the fear of corona virus continues in the nation, a coalition of healthcare professional bodies has criticized Akwa Ibom State government for not putting in place enough measures to contain the Coronavirus pandemic in the state. The health professional bodies comprises of a joint leadership structure of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives (NANNM) and the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMLSN). The group after considering the preventive measures taken to contain the Coronavirus pandemic  during a meeting in Uyo scored the government very low. In a communiqué issued after the meeting , the health experts noted with disappointment that government has not deemed it necessary to involve them in the fight against Covid-19. The communiqué was jointly signed by Dr. Nsikak Nyoyoko,  state Chairman, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), and Comrade Patrick Odu, State Chairman, National Association Of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives (NANNM). The State Chairman of Pharmacy Society of Nigeria (PSN) Dr. Akwaowoh Akpabio and state chairman Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMLSN), Emilia Eliezer also signed the communiqué. The groups decried the apparent lack of communication, saying it had contributed in fueling rumours, half-truths and non-truths – a situation that is inimical to the prevention of COVID-19 outbreak in the State. The communiqué reads in part,  “The Leadership observed with satisfaction that the State Ministry of Health has embarked on public health enlightenment campaigns with radio jingles in English and vernacular. The Leadership of Healthcare Professionals in Akwa Ibom also received reports on COVID-19 preparedness activities by the State Ministry of Health. “Some of these include preparation of the Isolation Centre in Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH), Ikot Ekpene, distribution of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) by the Ministry of Health, COVID-19 screening at the Victor Attah International Airport among others. This is commendable. “The meeting also received reports that majority of the healthcare professionals have received no formal training on COVID-19 outbreak response or the management of a Clinical case. “The meeting also noted with satisfaction the setting up of a Hospital-based Taskforce on COVID-19 by the Management of the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital. “The Leadership noted with shock that while passengers travelling through the Victor Attah International Airport are  being subjected to screening, no screening of any kind is being conducted at our land and sea borders with Cross River State, Rivers State, Abia State, Cameroun and Equitorial Guinea where majority of travellers pass into Akwa Ibom State. “The meeting also frowned at complaints received by members that healthcare professional are being blackmailed to work without personal protective equipment including basic devices like facemasks, gloves, hand sanitizers and hygiene facilities such as running water. In the face of the current outbreak scoping water from a drum will not suffice. “The Leadership noted the irony that our healthcare workers who are paid a miserly hazard allowance continue to always patriotically put their lives on the line in defense of Society. Examples include the health workers responses during Ebola, Lassa Fever and now COVID-19 outbreaks. “The Leadership observed that there are no triage points and established protocols in our various hospitals across the State”. To this end, the health professional bodies have called on the government to apply the partial lock down policy as one of the measures in checking the virus.