As the crisis surrounding the position of the national chairman
of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole deepens, the
Lagos State chapter of the party has pitched its tent with the troubled leader,
expressing their support for him. The party in a statement by its state publicity secretary, Seye Oladejo, said it appreciates the leadership of Oshiomhole which it said they believe was mainly responsible for the party’s victories in the national elections, describing the crisis in the party as needless and avoidable. Police unaware of cops’ killing of 3 in Rivers community – Spokesman The party said it regards the crisis as a “testing the
waters for the ultimate strategy of the enemies within to decimate the party
before their final onslaught.” According to the statement made available to newsmen, the
party said, “Lagos APC has resolved to throw its weight behind the National
Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the needless and avoidable crisis in
the party. “We acknowledge and appreciate the dogged and passionate
leadership of the national chairman which was mainly responsible for our
victories in the national elections. We did not only retain the presidency but
also won the majority of the seats at the National Assembly. This gave birth to
the progressive leadership at the two arms of the National Assembly. “We can definitely not dismiss his monumental achievements
which included breaking new grounds to the discomfort of the opposition party.
As much as we will not like to say too much as the matter is already in court,
recent reports that the crisis was borne out of 2023 ambitions underscore the
desperation on the part of some members of the political class. “At a time like this, Lagos State APC wants to identify with
the majority of the noble, decent and honourable men who have pleaded for
peace, decorum and discipline to reign supreme in our party. The gladiators
should take a cue from history that’s replete with men who tried to play God
but failed at the crucial moment. “We dare say that no one is bigger than the party that has
provided a platform and a voice for the gladiators to be relevant. “However, we regard this as testing the waters for the
ultimate strategy of the enemies within to decimate the party before their
final onslaught. “We’re strengthened by the resolve of men of goodwill who’re
standing firm in support of one united and indivisible party. “We wish to call on the gladiators to shield their swords
and deploy their strength to deliver on the various assignments entrusted to
them. “As much as we regard this development as a storm in the
teacup, we’re of the opinion that our party will emerge stronger at the end of the
day,” the statement read. It will recalled that last Wednesday, the lingering
leadership crisis in the party took a new turn after a Federal Capital
Territory (FCT) High Court barred Oshiomhole from acting as the APC National
Chairman following an application by some party members that he had been
suspended by his ward in Etsako, Edo State. But the following day, a Federal High Court sitting in Kano State
granted retention of status quo. The police subsequently sealed off the
National Secretariat in Abuja.