The Holy Trinity Anglican Church, Ikate (HTAC) of the Diocese of Lagos Mainland Archdeaconry said that the church adjusted its service time to ensure total compliance with the Lagos State Government’s directive on preventive measures against COVID-19. Ven. Olusegun Ajayi, the Archdeacon in-charge of the parish told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Lagos that they would no longer have service in two but six sessions. READ ALSO:  Breaking: Lagos ban gathering of over 20 people Ajayi said that the idea was to curtail the number of worshippers during each session of the service. “We receive a circular from the Lagos State Government on Wednesday on the ban on religious gathering of above 50 persons as part of efforts to fight against the spread of coronavirus. “As a result of the directive from the Diocese and the Diocesan in respect of the fight against the spread of coronavirus, our services from tomorrow will run six sessions due to the population of the parish. “Tomorrow being Mothering Sunday, the first service will run from 7a.m. to 7.45.a.m.; second service 8 a.m. to 8:45 a.m.; third service 9. a. m. to 9:45 a.m.; fourth service 10 a.m. to 10:45 a.m., Fifth service 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 a.m., and last service 12 p.m. to 12:45 p.m.,” he said. The priest said that the church would provide water and hand sanitisers at the designated entry points into the church. “This is to ensure that everyone has clean hands before entering the church. “We are also going to ensure parishioners follow the directives of the Guild of Stewards of the church to wash their hands and use the hand sanitiser at the single entry of the church,” Ajayi said. The Vicar said that the sitting arrangements would change, as a person will occupy a single pew in the church, including the choristers. He said the sitting arrangement was to also allow space among parishioners. Ajayi called on parishioners and other Christian religious bodies to ensure total compliance with the state government’s directive. “The measure was for the safety and good of the citizens against the deadly coronavirus pandemic,” he said. Ajayi said all activities to mark the annual Mothering Sunday would still be observed but on a low key. The cleric, however, commended Babajide Sanwo-Olu led government of the state for all the proactive measures put in place to avoid the spread since the outbreak of COVID-19. NAN reports that a committee had been set up involving top religious leaders to ensure compliance with the directive of the Lagos State Government.