The  Federal Government has been asked to avoid taking key policies that would worsen the  current economic status of the country due to the impact of the COVID-19  pandemic and drop in crude oil price. Speaking about what the government ought to do, the Vice President of the IndustriALL Global Union, Comrade, Issa Aremu, during a workshop organised by the Labour Writers Association of Nigeria (LAWAN), said the virus is a new threat to Nigeria’s economic recovery. Coronavirus – Heed to Govt directives, Monarch tells public With the theme: ‘The
Media as Change Agents in Industrial and Labour Relations.’ Comrade Aremu
maintained that organised labour should support the federal government in its
quest to combat the deadly Covid-19. “Coronavirus shows that
we must deepen diversification of the economy, produce what we consume and
consume what we produce. CBN must, therefore, sustain it is policy of not
financing 43 items Nigeria can produce at home,” he hinted. According to him,
employers must invest in workers awareness on prevention and control of the
disease, noting that economic productivity has been brought to a halt globally
because of the virus. “Nigeria currently
produces below capacity. I bear witness that considerable work needs to be done
on national productivity. At 60, Nigeria should be more productive. No better
time to raise the noise level of the production crisis than now; 60th
independence anniversary. Nigeria is no longer a productive country of the
immediate post-colonial era of 60s and 70s. Currently, we still consume what we
do not produce; export raw materials that we should have turned to manufactured
goods, import the same products produced by others. We import unemployment and
export jobs. This must change. Productivity is an input/ output relationship. “I commend the federal
government for its commitment to re-industrialise the country, through
sustainable industrial policies, such as the new (CTG, Cotton, Textile and
Garment) policy. We must curb smuggling and dumping. Nigeria must declare
emergency on energy sector if we must improve on productivity. We must improve
on the policy environment, education and technology to raise the nation’s output.” He further stated that
as Nigeria marks its 60th independence anniversary this year, the need to be
more productive to compete favourably was pertinent. According to him, there is
no better time to act than now. “We still consume
what we do not produce; export raw materials that we should have turned to
manufactured goods, import the same products produced by others with tears. We
import unemployment and export jobs. This must change. Productivity is an
input/output relationship. Speaking earlier, the
Executive Director, International Press Centre, (IPC-Lagos), Mr Lanre
Arogundade said labour reporter should develop focused and
effective communication activities that promote the confidence in
industrial/labour relations, it is vital to understand the role of the media. “The relations
between Labour/Industrial sectors and media, representatives are becoming more
and more important particularly to ensure the smooth reach of wider public at
large. Regardless of the form, the media will maintain the role of trusted news
provider in future.” He said However, the Chairman,
LAWAN, Bimbola Oyesola, said that it is very important for reporters to improve
on their capacity for effective reportage. She urged reporters on the need to
ensure a balanced reportage.