The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has said investing in education is a sure recipe in addressing insecurity, insurgency, terrorism and other social vices in any society. “All the problems we are facing today have to do with ignorance and illiteracy, which education plays a major role in addressing them”. Hypo partners FAAN, donates 100 cartons of products to prevent COVID-19 Abubakar stated this on Tuesday, while commissioning various projects at the Air Force headquarters in Jos, as well as the Air Force Girls Military School, also in Jos. Speaking at the occasion, the Air Chief affirmed that in the quest to ensure that air force schools meets international standard, his administration has invested in upgrading the educational facilities, aimed at encouraging personnel and their dependants to invest their time in acquiring education. “What we are doing is to see how we can support our personnel and their dependants to get the best of education. We are restructuring the Nigerian Air Force to ensure that it meets the current challenges in the contemporary world”. In the success gained in the fight against insurgents, Abubakar said: “we have dominated the air space in the northeast and have come up with videos that will lead to the insurgents hideouts”. Responding, the Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong said the commissioning of the projects clearly lends credence to the fact that the Nigerian Air Force is evolving and fast transforming, in tandem with the vision of President Muhammadu Buhari to make it one of the best on the continent. According to Lalong: “we are here today to commission another set of projects, which have to do with infrastructural development of schools. “Without doubt, these projects are a huge investment for the future of our society, as the students that are being trained today will run affairs of the nation in the coming years. “It is therefore a thing of joy to note that the current leadership of the Force has invested so much in the Air Force Military School and the Air Force Girls Military School, both in Jos as well as in opened entrance opportunities to every qualified Nigerian child. “In this regard, the newly constructed Military Wing, Obstacle Course and Street Lights among others, which will be commissioned today, will go a long way in improving the welfare of the Junior Airmen/Airwomen, thereby motivating and encouraging them to focus on their studies”, the Governor said.