The National Centre for Disease and Control NCDC has said that the numbers of persons who have Coronavirus in Nigeria has risen to 40. For a breakdown of cases according to  states in real time NCDC said currently; Lagos- 28 FCT- 7 Ogun- 2 Ekiti- 1 Oyo- 1 Edo- 1 Total: 40 confirmed cases #COVID19Nigeria Dangote Cement mulls over-issuance under N300bn maiden Bonds On the 23rd of March 2020, Ten new confirmed cases of COVID-19 recorded in Nigeria• Till date, Forty (40) cases have been confirmed, two cases have been discharged and one death from COVID-19 recorded in Nigeria• Of the Ten (10) new cases, one (1) is in Edo State, two (3) are in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and Six (6) are in Lagos State• The case in Edo State is being treated at Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital; cases in the FCT are being treated at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada; and the cases in Lagos State are being treated at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. All six (6) new cases have mild to moderate symptoms and are currently receiving treatment.• A multi-sectoral national emergency operations centre (EOC), activated at level 3, continues to coordinate the national response activities The coronavirus is spreading ever faster, and there are now over 300,000 confirmed cases recorded worldwide, the World Health Organisation’s figures said on Monday. “It took 67 days for the first 100,000 cases to be confirmed, 11 days for the next 100,000, and only four for the last 100,000,’’ it said. WHO director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, called the development “heartbreaking.” He also said that the number of infections among doctors and care personnel is especially alarming. “When the people who take care of the sick become ill themselves, many more people will die,’’ Tedros warned. He also called on Group of 20 countries to work together to ratchet up the production of protective gear. Tedros also said that those materials must be distributed fairly and arrive where they are needed most. Report says the G20 includes the most important industrialised and emerging countries, which together account for over 80 per cent of the world’s gross domestic product (GDP).