Olam, a player
in the Nigerian agriculture value chain, recently embarked on a pilot farming
project in the country. This is in line with the Federal Government’s
initiative to attain self-sufficiency in tomato production and processing. Executing the project through its subsidiary, Caraway Africa Nigeria Ltd, it acquired 20 hectares of land for this purpose and set up farms in Karfi, Kano State, as well as Masama and Guri, both located in Jigawa State. Illegal oil drilling in Anambra: Senate C’ttee storms Awka for verification The farms are
solely dedicated to the production of tomatoes. While the
tomatoes were transplanted in October 2019, harvest commenced in February 2020.
Reji George, Olam Nigeria’s Vice President in charge of Farming Initiatives,
said preliminary results point to a bountiful harvest. He
 stated that
each of the farms were on course to produce 30 metrics tons of tomato 
per the hectare, as against the 7.5 metric tons per hectare which is 
Nigeria’s average
yield for tomato. Reji added that
the commercial pilot farming initiative, which Olam is embarking upon through
Caraway Africa Nigeria is a precursor to a backward integration project for
tomato paste production, which will commence in March 2021. He stated that a
major challenge confronting the production of tomatoes in Nigeria is a lack of
good variety of seeds to buy. Another problem is extremely poor yields as low
tomato production leads to higher prices, thereby making it unattractive for
processors to purchase. These
challenges, he adds, are also linked to the unwillingness of farmers to produce
tomatoes in large quantity, because they want to avoid product decay and losses
because of lack of proper storage and preservation facilities. Addressing the challenge of poor tomato seeds, Reji said Olam has signed an MOU with the World
Vegetable Centre, a globally renowned research institute and prominent seed
producer and developer, for the supply of 18 varieties of seeds, exclusively
for Caraway Africa Nigeria. He added: “We
have also decided to go for an additional eight varieties of hybrid tomato
seeds already existing in Nigeria, which have a higher yield potential, but
which the farmers are not using because of the cost. We have selected tomato
seed varieties which produce fresh tomatoes as well as the variants which are
good for tomato processing.” The tomatoes
which are being currently harvested at the Caraway Africa Nigeria Kano and
Jigawa farms are considered to be of a higher quality than what is currently
being produced by other farmers in terms of size, quality and weight, he
enumerated. The tomatoes are
products of the Nigerian hybrid seeds and the World Vegetable Centre seeds,
which were planted on a trial basis, he stated. Alhaji Uba Idris
Dogara, the owner of Dogara Farms, who has been farming for 35 years, attested to
the quality of the recently harvested tomatoes. He said: “I’m an old-time tomato
farmer, but the method Olam brought to this place is looking better than the
previous method we were using. I have seen a lot of changes in their yields
than what we have been getting before. There is a big improvement. This method
is better than what we have seen.” Emmanuel Agbo,
Farm Manager of the Masama Farm and Mohammed Saulawa, Farm Manager, Abur Farm,
both owned by Olam Nigeria and located in Jigawa State said the quality of the
tomatoes have attracted farmers who have visited their farms, curious to know
about the farming methods that have produced such yields. Speaking on the
attraction, Saulawa said: “They have seen the difference in terms of the fruit
size and the agronomic practices that we have employed here, which are not the
conventional farming practices that they are used to. You can keep the tomato
variety for a week without it getting spoilt, unlike what the farmers take to
the market which decays by the second day. They have seen how we apply
fertilizer and how we are consistent with our spray regime. They are visiting
the farm to understudy and see how they can replicate these methods in their
own farms.”