Following the outbreak
of the Coronavirus currently ravaging nations of the world, management of
Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed
Airport Terminal Two (MMA2), has advised travellers to be safety conscious,
particularly in the area of personal and respiratory hygiene. Experts have recommended
everyday preventive actions to help prevent the spread of respiratory diseases.
This, the operators said remains the most effective strategy to fight off the
scourge which has rendered several businesses around the world
incapacitated. In a statement issued in Lagos, the firm maintained that its officials have been strategically positioned to carry out necessary checks and other safety tips to assist other public health officials to track and report suspicious incidents. This is being carried out in line with laid down instructions by regulatory agencies. National Fertilizer Act: FG targets increased GDP The statement, according
to Mr Ayotunde Osowe of the Corporate Communications department, charged
airport users to cooperate with terminal officials in the onerous task of
ridding the nation of any likelihood of unwanted disease, stressing the need
for concerted efforts by all and sundry geared towards making the society
habitable for all. It would be recalled
that since the disease broke out in China in December 2019, it has recorded 90,
000 cases with 3000 deaths; reported cases in no less than 48 countries.
Nigeria, in like manner, announced the outbreak of the disease few days ago,
courtesy of an Italian consultant who came in for a business trip. BASL Safety Manager, Mr.
Charles Aroguma, while speaking, noted that his team is in regular touch with
officials of the Port Health Division of the Federal Ministry of Health and the
Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to give necessary support and
other intervention to ward-off the dreaded disease. Aroguma, who noted that
sanitizers have been deployed to various beats at the terminal where personnel
usually have direct interface with members of the public, also stated,
“Our men are fully on the ground, closely observing the turn of events. We are
ensuring that our security personnel use hand gloves and other necessary
preventive measures while screening passengers, and ensure they change the hand
gloves regularly. “We are optimistic
of meaningful outlook, as we have also concluded plans to deploy temperature
measurement device to take the temperature of all terminal users at the various
entry points. These measures are basic and we will upgrade our strategies if
there is a need to introduce additional measures.”