The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) is demanding uniformity in implementing the lock-down orders on non-essential services in the country. To this end, the association has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to issue a presidential order to enforce compliance. In a press statement signed by the NMA President, Dr. Francis Faduyile and made available to journalists on Thursday, the association commended the federal and state government for the efforts in containing the spread of the virus. “We, therefore, call on President Buhari to issue an Executive order to enforce compliance.  NMA appreciates the leadership role being played by the Federal Government so far and efforts of some State governments in containing this looming danger,’’ Faduyile said. The NMA president specially commended the Lagos State government for standing out so far and the godly spirit of philanthropy of individuals like Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Mrs. Folorunsho Alakija, who have made substantial donations to assist the country in the fight. Osun Senator slams advocates for Buhari’s broadcast on COVID-19, says Nigeria doesn’t need it He called on other Nigerians and corporate organisations to assist with technical, financial and other supportive measures. “The NMA appreciates the sacrifice of medical doctors and other health care workers who have continued to do their work despite the stark reality of being in the frontline in the war against COVID-19. “We urge governments at all levels to ensure the availability of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and other incentives that can motivate the health workforce to give in their best.” The association decried what it described as ‘absence’ of purposely-built isolation centers across the country unlike in the past where Infectious Diseases Hospitals existed in every state of the Federation. According to Faduyile, certain key strategies have been largely absent or sub-optimally implemented in the ongoing efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. He disclosed that the ICUs with Ventilators/artificial respirators make the difference between life and death in complications from Covid-19. “It is scary that the dearth of these facilities is the same in all the 36 States and the FCT. “Given these defaults/inadequacies, NMA, therefore, calls for immediate commencement of supervised self-isolation in any manner that will protect public health.” The NMA president further stated that the immediate commencement of supervised self- isolation would ensure that returnees from the countries with high prevalence would adhere to instructions and confine themselves to a location in order to protect members of the public. “Physical visits by the designated officials to the returnees to track their locations, taking their vital signs and those of each of their contacts rather than voluntary reports of failing health and serial testing of their samples will deliver better results.” The NMA further called on the Federal Government to immediately commence a strategic partnership/collaboration with the states and their relevant organisations on day to day basis as the weakest link in the chain can rubbish every effort of the stronger parts. He called on NMA State chapters including the FCT to mobilise volunteers (doctors who are active as well as those in the private sector) to assist in the area of service delivery at health facilities, contact tracing and wholesome information/public health education campaigns in collaboration with the public authorities.