The Voice Coach UK and founder of The Ultimate Gospel Singers Boot Camp, Uncle Ade, has highlighted the importance of his latest music project. According to the UK based coach, ‘the  Boot Camp is a one week intensive training program designed to improve the singing technique and singing IQ of artistes at a very affordable rate.” “Essentially, the GSBC is an intensive program designed to give singers a detailed insight into the essential technical and practical elements that must be present, to help a singer achieve excellence in their craft. Unlike the kind of information that students typically learn at university and college, my teaching approach, and therefore content, have been developed to ensure that my students experience ‘career defining training,” he stated. The event which is slated to hold between March 30 to April 3, 2020 at Surulere, Lagos, is targeted at beginners, Intermediates and Advanced gospel music artistes. “The program is structured in a manner that will give all levels greater insight, understanding and a solid foundation on which to develop their voice. We do also welcome non-Christian singers, because technically exactly the same principles apply. But be warned this space will be filled with the holy spirit, all week. Those who attend will take-away a wealth of knowledge and insight into the business practices, and thought processes of some of the most successful practitioners in the African music industry. “ He added, ”I do have to point out thought, that it would be next to impossible to stage these camps, without the generosity of RCCG and TTC, in accommodating us. We are extremely blessed, and extremely grateful! RCCG are also sponsoring some of their choir members for the camp. I am hoping we can get more churches to do the same.” Asked if he thinks the Nigerian gospel music industry is ready for this huge step, Uncle Ade said, “the question is not whether Nigeria is ready for such a huge step. I believe Nigerian Gospel Music has been waiting to take this huge step. And God has positioned me in places, to learn the best practices, and now blessed me with the opportunity to contribute, and to direct future torch bearers in Gospel Music Ministry. He was making me ready for this huge step! I have had the most unorthodox path to life as a music coach, and have achieved things with no real explanation of how they were possible, with such little formal guidance. But one thing I have learned is that God doesn’t call the qualified, but he surely qualifies the called! He knew 56 years ago, before I was conceived, exactly where he needed me to be, what he needed me to experience, and what he needed me to learn. And he knew when the time came, that I would hear his voice, and answers his call!”