A top member of the gang led by Terwase Akwaza aka Gana, has made some explosive revelations about the deceased. In an interview with The Nation, the militant who gave his aliases as ‘Major and Aondehemba’, vowed that the battle will continue. He revealed that Gana, killed by the Nigerian Army last week, had an inkling of his death and handed over all his powers to his deputy. Major disclosed that Gana trained over 200 fighters spread across Benue North East and some parts of Taraba State. He recalled that the gang advised Gana not to come out, warning him that the amnesty was a ploy to get him. “He told us that he was coming out to honour the Bishop of Gboko, William Aveyam and Senator Gabriel Suswam. He said these two have been mounting pressure on him in the last three months to embrace peace. He assembled us in the morning in the bush and directed us on what to do if he did not return alive. READ ALSO: Gana was snatched by military men — Widow “He told us that if it was a setup, the battle should continue, but if it was with genuine intentions, he will want us to lay down our arms. I was among the five that disappeared in the convoy when the Army stopped us in Gboko. Our vehicle was following the official car of the Local Government Chairman that was conveying Gana to Makurdi. “Gana could not disappear because he handed over his powers to the second commander. His intention was to make sure that peace returned permanently in Sankara (Logo, Ukum, Katsina Ala LGAs). He told us that one of the things he intended to say in Makurdi was to plead with Governor Ortom to forgive him and reassure him of peace in Benue.” Daily Times gathered that Major revealed that their late boss had supernatural powers derived from his 12 years old daughter that he burred alive 11 years ago in his village in Gbitse. “That is why he was very powerful, and those powers are still intact because he gave them to someone very close to him. The military can’t contend Gana’s forces. Gana was in his village in Gbitse when he was declared wanted by the government. The military kept coming. Most times, they will meet him but won’t know. Why didn’t they get him then?”, the militant quipped.