After 14 years on air, the Kardashian-Jenner family has announced the end of the show, ‘Keeping Up With The Kardashians’. Daily Times Nigeria gathered that Kim Kardashian made this known on Instagram on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Kim Kardashian celebrates 6 years wedding anniversary… She wrote; “To our amazing fans – It is with heavy hearts that we’ve made the difficult decision as a family to say goodbye to Keeping Up with the Kardashians” According to reports gathered, Kim and her siblings Kourtney, Khloe, Kylie and Kendall household names and launched their careers in the fashion and beauty business, will air its last season early next year. “After what will be 14 years, 20 seasons, hundreds of episodes and numerous spin-off shows, we are beyond grateful to all of you who’ve watched us for all of these years – through the good times, the bad times, the happiness, the tears, and the many relationships and children. We’ll forever cherish the wonderful memories and countless people we’ve met along the way. “Thank you to the thousands of individuals and businesses that have been a part of this experience and, most importantly, a very special thank you to Ryan Seacrest for believing in us, E! for being our partner, and our production team at Bunim/Murray, who’ve spent countless hours documenting our lives. “Our last season will air early next year in 2021. “Without Keeping Up with The Kardashians, I wouldn’t be where I am today. I am so incredibly grateful to everyone who has watched and supported me and my family these past 14 incredible years. “This show made us who we are and I will be forever in debt to everyone who played a role in shaping our careers and changing our lives forever,” she stated. Keeping Up with the Kardashians, often abbreviated KUWTK is an American reality television series that air on the E! cable network. The show focuses on the personal and professional lives of the Kardashian–Jenner blended family. The series debuted on October 14, 2007, and has subsequently become one of the longest-running reality television series in the country.