A fresh attack has hit Zango Kataf local government area of Kaduna State, leaving two persons reportedly dead and houses burnt. According to a statement by the Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU), the gunmen invaded Manyi-Mashin village in the early hours of Friday, September 11 and killed two persons as well as cart away valuables. Its National Public Relations Officer, Mr. Luka Binniyat, said the two persons were burnt to ashes in their homes, pointing out September has been a bloody month in the area. The statement said, “Early this morning, (11th September, 2020) Manyi-Mashin village, in Zamandabo ward, in Atyap Chiefdom, Zangon Kataf Local Government Area (LGA) in Southern Kaduna, was invaded by hordes of Fulani armed men who burnt down almost all the houses in the village, looting and carting away valuables. “Two persons were burnt in their homes beyond recognition: They are Cecilia Ishaya, 62, a widow and mother of 6 children and Iliya Sunday, 56, who left behind 8 children. Though men of Operation Safe Heaven promptly responded, the militia fled before their arrival. READ ALSO:  CAN dissociates self from NCPC peace summit in Southern Kaduna “This was after Fulani militia on the 8th September, 2020 lay ambush for three Atyap youths from Atakmawei in same Zamandabo Ward in Atyap Chiefdom, as they went to clear weed in their sugar cane farm about a kilometer from their village. “Suddenly, armed herdsmen came from hiding and struck. They descended on them with daggers and machetes. “Anthony Magaji, 25, a final year HND student of Nuhu Bamali Polytechnic, Zaria, was hacked down. They axed his neck and head with macabre wounds and killed him instantly. “Isaac Thomas, 24, also an OND student of the same School, managed to escape with life threatening injuries and is now under intensive care in a hospital, while the third escaped with less injury. “Meanwhile, we have received complaints of farmers in Gora axis of Atyap Chiefdom, who say that Fulani men occasional sneak into their farms destroy large swath of growing food crops, thus leaving them with a bleak prospect of hunger in the near future. “All these gory development is taking place after a much publicized peace deal was reached between natives of Atyap Chiefdom on one side and their long time settled Hausa and Fulani representatives on 23rd August, 2020 in Unguwan Wakili, close to Zangon Kataf town.” Daily Times gathered that the spokesman of Kaduna Police Command, ASP Muhammad Jalige was yet to respond to enquiries for confirmation of the latest attack as at the time of filing this report.