By Idris Ahmed Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Kogi state chapter, has cried out to the citizens to intervene in the plight of doctors serving under Kogi state government, as many of them may leave due to nonpayment of salary and poor remuneration, Daily Times gathered. Chairman of the Association, Kogi state branch, Dr. Omakoji Oyiguh disclosed on Wednesday while on a familiarisation visit to the Kogi State Islamic Council of Ulamua , that no fewer than four medical doctors have left the service as a result of nonpayment of salary and other entitlements. Dr. Oyiguh who was elected Chairman of NMA last month, said more doctors are threatening to leave as soon as they have better opportunities elsewhere. The chairman who expressed worries on this development appealed to Kogi state government to consider the effect of the exodus of medical doctors from the state on the citizens and give priority to the welfare of health workers to prevent a catastrophe that may unleash on the health sector and the general public. READ ALSO: Steer clear of Ekiti affairs — Fayose warns Makinde “The issue of strike is not what I want my own administration to welcome. I would want to be very proactive in discussing with the government to ensure that things do not reach the level where doctors will be frustrated to go on strike. This will create a crisis in the health system of Kogi State. “Salaries have been revised over and over since 2009, 2014 and now there is minimum wage. Kogi state is still at the lowest level of 2004. So, the doctors are not happy that their salaries compared to their counterpart in FMC is about half, compared to their counterparts also in other states. “As of yesterday, four doctors left the service of the Kogi State Government. So they are leaving en-mass and we cannot afford to say nothing is wrong. Things are going wrong and not happy this is also happening under my leadership. We can’t count the numbers of doctors that have quit the services of the state. This does not speak well of the confluence state. Am just two months old in this office. “This cannot continue. I just have to cry out now before things get out of hand. Whatever the governor can do, to avert further loss of our doctors to other states, he should please do it before things get out of hand. As he is celebrating his victory at the supreme court, he should extend that celebration to bring smiles to the faces of doctors in the service of the government of Kogi State” he added. Dr. Oyiguh who spoke extensively on other issues affecting the health sector in the state however legitimized the ongoing strike action embarked upon by resident doctors in the country to press home their demands. READ ALSO: Replace resident doctors with corps members — FG “The resident doctors at the Kogi state specialist hospital are on strike as I speak. It is not only in Kogi State but the entire nation. Their claims are legitimate. The government complained that they don’t have a lot of money to be able to deal with issues. But if they made promises in the course of this pandemic, it is important they keep to it. “They promised allowances for those working at different duty posts and risking their lives for people and you are unable to keep to this promise. People who the government made this promise to has the right to them to keep their promises. And this is what is happening and I want you people to show understanding” Dr. Oyiguh said. The NMA Chairman, who lamented over the continuous closure of Federal Medical Center, Lokoja, disclosed that many have lost their lives in the state since they could not afford the bills of private hospitals in the absence of the relatively cheaper public medical facility like the FMC. “FMC Lokoja has over 250 doctors. The hospital has been closed for over two months and nobody is saying anything. Whatever the reason the hospital was shut down, the Council of Ulamau and other key stakeholders should be concerned with this development. “Please talk to those in authority to ensure the reopening of the hospital. FMC cannot be closed and Kogi state specialist hospital is closed too, this is not good for us. People are dying, whatever the reason is, something must be done to reopen this hospital to avert further loss of lives in the state since it is not all citizens that can afford the bills of private hospitals,” Dr. Oyiguh appealed to the religious organisation. READ ALSO: Tinubu should have stood up to greet Ooni — Odumakin The Chairman however told the Council of Ulamau that NMA has concluded plans to set up a professional committee to deal with the emerging diseases in the state. Responding, the State secretary, Kogi State Council of Ulamau, Alhaji Baba Ango Idris called on the NMA to check the activities of quack doctors in the state, promising to synergize with NMA towards the protection of medical facilities and doctors in the State.