The Kardashian-Jenner family has announced on Tuesday that the iconic reality show will be coming to an end after 20 seasons with the final season airing in early 2021. “It is with heavy hearts that we say goodbye to Keeping Up with the Kardashians. After what will be 14 years, 20 seasons, hundreds of episodes and several spin-off shows, we’ve decided as a family to end this very special journey,” the family shared on social media. “We are beyond grateful to all of you who’ve watched us for all of these years—through the good times, the bad times, the happiness, the tears, and the many relationships and children. We’ll forever cherish the wonderful memories and countless people we’ve met along the way. “Thank you to the thousands of individuals and businesses that have been a part of this experience and most importantly, a very special thank you to Ryan Seacrest for believing in us, E! for being our partner, and our production team at Bunim/Murray who’ve spent countless hours filming our lives. Our last season will air early next year in 2021. The famous family members posted about the show ending on their social media accounts. The announcement was signed by Kris Jenner, Kourtney Kardashian, Kim Kardashian, Khloe Kardashian, Rob Kardashian, Kendall Jenner, Kylie Jenner and Scott Disick. The show premiered in 2007, and turned the KardashianJenner family into international superstars with a multimedia empire complete with clothing lines, cosmetics companies, apps and never ending tabloid interest in their every move. READ ALSO: ‘Keeping up with the Kardashians’ show finally ends after 14 seasons Kim Kardashian West posted her social media platform informing her million followers that Without ‘Keeping Up with The Kardashians, she wouldn’t be where she is today. She is also incredibly grateful to everyone who has watched and supported she and her family these past 14 incredible years. She also said that the show made them who they are and I will be forever in debt to everyone who played a role in shaping our careers and changing our lives forever.