The All Progressives Congress (APC) has criticized the comments made by the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and its presidential candidate of the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar over petrol deregulation. APC in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena on Wednesday, September 9, described Atiku’s comment as the height of hypocrisy. The statement said, “The PDP and Atiku’s reaction to what has been adjudged an inevitability by many experts clearly depicts the height of hypocrisy demonstrated by them on many issues relating to the progress and well being of Nigeria. “Atiku’s comments clearly reveal his two-facedness and portrays him as a man not only acutely lacking in integrity but one that should never be trusted. READ ALSO:  Full deregulation as FG discards petrol price band ”Atiku continues to justify the majority of the Nigerian people who rejected him at the polls. This stems majorly from the fact that he was part of the government that created the “corrupt petrol subsidy” monster and also the chaos in the electricity sector. “ ”A further portrayal of Atiku’s hypocrisy was his pretentious promise to deregulate the downstream petroleum sector by privatizing the NNPC. ”Atiku made the sale of NNPC to his friends and the deregulation of both the PMS and the electricity sector the hallmark of his 2019 presidential election misadventure. “Atiku argued at different forums in 2018 and early 2019 that NNPC and the power sector must be disbanded through privatization if they must be efficient.” Daily Times gathered from a report by the Guardian on January 17, 2019, that Atiku supported privatization of the NNPC as a springboard for the deregulation of the downstream sector. Atiku said, ‘Privatising NNPC would be to our advantage. We are not going to lose anything, but we will rather gain a lot,’ according to a According to Vanguard, during the campaign and as reported by Reuters on November 19, 2018, ‘Nigeria’s Abubakar promises to boost oil investment, cut subsidies if elected.’ The news report added ‘Abubakar said he would eliminate subsidies on imported fuel and let the market determine the price.’