A singer, Dauda Kahutu, known for his numerous songs in honour of President Muhammadu Buhari, has called on Nigerians to sponsor his next album with a token of ₦1000 each, Daily Times gathered. Kahutu, popularly called Rarara made this request in a two-minute video he posted on his social media pages and also shared by many on Twitter and Instagram, anticipating with confidence that the donations will come in from Nigerians as a show of love for Buhari. “I want to make a new song for president Buhari and what I want to do this time around is to ask every of his supporter to fund the new song project. I want every one of you to contribute the sum of ₦1000 into my account to prove to Nigerians that Buhari’s fan base is still intact despite the economic hardship Nigerians are facing,” Rarara said. READ ALSO: COVID-19: How Buhari is working to reposition the economy, Osinbajo explains Many people condemned the singer on his social media pages. Others described his demand as ridiculous. A user, Hassan Almustapha said, “The video got me angry. N1000 naira is equivalent to one mudu (cup) of rice, in this time of hardship. This is day light robbery.” “This man Rarara is just a funny man. Who wants to listen to Buhari’s song again. If he wants to sing a new song for the president, he should go and ask the president for money. He will be shocked, no ordinary Nigerian will not even look at the post twice,” another user, Binta Audu said. “I can’t imagine this man asking Nigerians for money to sing for Buhari. In this fuel increase era, no food and you want people to give you money to sing for president Buhari, you must be joking,” Nasiru Alkali said. Rarara was appointed the National Director of Music for the Buhari 2019 Presidential Support Committee in the wake of the 2019 elections through the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. His appointment was validated by the senior special assistant to the president on political matters then, Gideon Sammani, made the disclosure in an official statement in July 2018. Rarara had also sung political harp-songs for APC governors including Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna, Mohammed Badaru of Jigawa, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, among others.