By Ukpono Ukpong Indigenes and residents of the oil-rich territory, stakeholders and civil society organizations have said it will be a great disservice to its people if the Federal Government fails to prosecute any contractor or official of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) found culpable in the gale of abandoned projects in the area. The call was made at the weekend during a Radio Town Hall Meeting Against Corruption, organized by Progressive Impact Organization for Community Development (PRIMORG), with support from the Macarthur Foundation. President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the forensic audit of the troubled Commission, following massive corruption allegations. Darlington Nwauju, a resident of Woji community in Rivers State, said the history of abandoned projects dates back from 1961 till date, urging the federal government to ensure that adequate punishment is meted out to NDDC contractors found wanting. “I believe that merely asking contractors to go back to site will be a disservice to the people of the region,” he said. A Human Rights lawyer, Frank Tietie, blamed the rate of abandoned projects on criminal collusion by people of the region who are unfortunately running the affairs of NDDC. He said Niger Delta people have become their own enemies. He also advised the federal government to take advantage of forensic auditing to expose corrupt individuals who are part of the years of rot in NDDC. Earlier at the meeting, the Olu of Warri, His Majesty Ogiame Ikenwoli, through a recorded message urged President Buhari to revoke the shoreline protection project in Koko, Warri North Local Council, Delta State, saying it was shabbily executed. “This is no job at all. I feel bad that such a shoddy job is done in my community. Koko is a very special place in my kingdom. There is Nigerian Ports Authority and a world-class museum here, so everybody from the whole world comes here because of the strategic location and this is the only road leading to the community. READ ALSO: Senate debunks receiving N20m palliative from NDDC “That was why they said let them construct shoreline protection to protect the community but this cannot stand the test of time. “I have seen shoreline protection but haven’t seen anything like this. “This job should be terminated and a good contractor should be gotten to do a good job. Tell Mr President we appreciate and thank him for this job but it is unacceptable,” he stated.