By Chioma Joseph Multiple accidents on Monday, involving a train, a Ford passenger bus, and a Toyota Highlander Jeep at the Oshodi area of Lagos, has reportedly claimed the life of a yet-to-be-identified man, Daily Times gathered. It was gathered that the fatality, a middle-aged man, was driving with his son in the Highlander jeep with registration number FST 723 FZ, while the white passenger bus with registration number GGE 972 GE, had six passengers on board. According to the Lagos State Management Agency (LASEMA), both vehicles veered onto the train tracks while crossing the rail at PWD inward Oshodi and subsequently collided with a scheduled commuter train. The driver of the Jeep died instantly, while his son sustained a severe injury, and was transferred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). In a statement obtained from the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) official Instagram page, the Director-General of agency, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu said: “The Agency received distress calls at 8.12 am concerning multiple accidents at Bolade in front of Nigerian Army Shopping Arena. READ ALSO: Fayose backs Obasanjo, says Buhari has failed Nigeria “Upon the arrival of the Eagle Squad at the scene, it was discovered that a white coloured bus with GGE 972 GE with six passengers and a Jeep highlander veered onto the train tracks while crossing the rail at PWD inward Oshodi and subsequently collided with a scheduled commuter train. “The bus and the Jeep were then dragged along for a stretch of the journey before the train managed to come to a complete halt. The Agency was able to successfully extricate the passengers and one life was lost. “Casualties have been provided with onsite medical care and discharged. A 20-year-old boy that sustained severe injuries was taken to LASUTH for further treatment. “Members of the public, especially drivers of commuter buses are reminded to obey traffic regulations to prevent injuries and transport delays.” Oke-Osanyintolu noted that the wreckage of the bus has been safely removed to allow for the free flow of commuter traffic. The Lagos State Police Command in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said: “Three people sustained varying degrees of injury and have been taken to an undisclosed hospital for treatment. The vehicle involved in the accident were removed from the track for ease of passage of other trains. “The matter has been referred to the Railway Police Command for further investigation and necessary action.” READ ALSO: Edo Election: Soldiers at Oshiomhole’s residence to scuttle polls, PDP alerts