The Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB) given strong warnings to the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, (MACBAN) over its economic interest in the South-East. The group issued the warning in response to claims by MACBAN that they are in the Southeast purely for economic reasons. Daily Times had reported that the Chairman of MACBAN South-East zone, Alhaji Gidado Siddiki, on Monday, September 14, said that it had economic interest for the South-East. A statement signed by IPOB’s spokesman, Emma Powerful, stressed that MACBAN was responsible for coordinating all other terrorist groups in the country. According to the statement: “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has been drawn to the deceptive statement credited to the frontline Fulani murderous group called Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), that they are solely concerned about their business interests in the East and not motivated by their age-long territorial expansionism. READ ALSO:  Miyetti Allah speaks on Economic plans for South-East ”We find it amusing that a known terror sponsor with a known history of ethnic cleansing in the Middle Belt will claim to have purely business interest in Biafra land. “We, therefore, warn Miyetti Allah, who by their admission is the lead coordinating group of all terrorist groups in Nigeria, to stay away from Biafraland. We don’t need them and their investment including their footsoldiers – Fulani herdsmen, Bandits, Ansaru Terrorists, ISWAP and others. They should all steer clear of Biafraland before it’s too late. “Biafraland cannot harbour bloodsuckers masquerading as herders. We can no longer sit idly by and watch them spill innocent blood under whatever guise, or raid communities without provocation, or maim and rape our mothers and daughters, or destroy our crops and farmlands. ”IPOB family worldwide has vowed never to allow Miyetti Allah continue with their criminal activities in Biafraland and that is how it shall be. You may have a few cowardly eastern governors in your pocket but be minded that such nonsense does not extend to IPOB.”