Vanessa Bryant, the widow of basketball star Kobe Bryant, has filed a lawsuit against the Los Angeles County sheriff, claiming deputies shared unauthorized photos of the crash that killed her husband, their 13-year-old daughter and seven others, according to Associated Press. After the Jan. 26 crash, reports surfaced that graphic photos of the victims were being shared. Vanessa Bryant was “shocked and devastated” by the reports, the lawsuit states. The suit seeks damages for negligence, invasion of privacy and intentional infliction of emotional distress. “This lawsuit is about accountability and about preventing this disgraceful behavior from happening to other families in the future who have suffered loss,” Vanessa Bryant’s attorney, Luis Li, said in a statement. “The department formally refused Mrs. Bryant’s requests for information, saying it was ‘unable to assist’ with any inquiry and had no legal obligation to do so. It’s now for a court to tell the department what its obligations are.” The victims died when the helicopter crashed into a hillside in Calabasas, northwest of Los Angeles, during cloudy weather. They were traveling to a youth basketball tournament at Bryant’s sports facility in Thousand Oaks. The National Transportation Safety Board has not concluded what caused the crash on the outskirts of Los Angeles County but said there was no sign of mechanical failure in the Sikorsky S-76 helicopter. Sheriff Alex Villanueva previously told news media that eight deputies took or shared graphic photos of the scene and he ordered the images deleted. The sheriff said the department has a policy against taking and sharing crime scene photos, but it does not apply to accident scenes. “That was my No. 1 priority, was to make sure those photos no longer exist,” Villanueva previously told NBC News. “We identified the deputies involved. They came to the station on their own and had admitted they had taken them and they had deleted them. And we’re content that those involved did that.” Vanessa Bryant’s lawsuit alleges the sheriff ’s actions constituted a “cover-up’’ of the misconduct. The suit claims the photos could still exist. “Mrs. Bryant feels ill at the thought of strangers gawking at images of her deceased husband and child and she lives in fear that she or her children will one day confront horrific images of their loved ones online,” the lawsuit states. California Gov. Gavin Newsom has not yet signed a bill that would make it a misdemeanor for first responders to take unauthorized photos of deceased people at the scene of an accident or crime. The legislation was prompted by the crash photos. A statement from the sheriff ’s department Tuesday incorrectly said such actions are now criminal. The bill has not yet been signed into law. “Shortly following this tragic crash, Sheriff Villanueva sponsored legislation which now makes it a crime for public safety personnel to take and share non-official pictures of this nature,” the statement said. “Due to the pending litigation, we are unable to offer further comment.” The Los Angeles Times first reported the allegations that the graphic photos had been taken and disseminated in February. READ ALSO: Vanessa Bryant changes Instagram profile picture after husband’s demise Bryant previously filed a claim, a precursor to a lawsuit, in May. The suit was filed Thursday. Separately, Vanessa Bryant has also filed a lawsuit alleging that the helicopter’s pilot, Ara Zobayan, was careless and negligent to fly in the fog and should have aborted the flight. The brother of the pilot has said in a court filing that Bryant knew the risks of helicopter flying and his survivors aren’t entitled to damages from the pilot’s estate, while the helicopter company, Island Express, says it is not responsible for damages, calling the crash, among other things, “an act of God” and “an unavoidable accident” that was beyond its control.