By Esther Oghenekome Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL), the operator of the joint venture with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), NNPC/ CNL JV, has donated Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) laboratory equipment to Warri Central Hospital in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Other materials donated include test kits, medical consumables, four air conditioners, refrigerators, a 50-KVA soundproof generating set and the renovation of the four-room laboratory building provided by the Delta State government. The company also handed over a well-equipped surgical theatre and consulting rooms built alongside a 60kva generator, to the Ekpan General Hospital, Uvwie Local Government Area Delta State. General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, Esimaje Brikinn, in his statement after the handover ceremony appreciated Delta State Government for its continual support for CNL’s operations in the state. He said the donations are part of the overall contributions of CNL to the fight against COVID-19 and the improvement of medical services delivery in the state. “We are happy that our partnership with Delta State has led to improvements in the people’s quality of life through our investments in education, health and social infrastructure and the sponsorship of manpower development programs in the health and educational sectors.” READ ALSO: NUPENG, Chevron in conflict over workers’ sack Director of Health Services/CEO Delta State Hospital Management Board and representative of the State Commissioner for Health, Mrs F. E. Omoraka, expressed appreciation to NNPC/CNL JV for its earlier gift of an ambulance, a ventilator, test kits, PPEs, medical consumables, including three buses for contact-tracing activities and complimented NNPC/CNL JV for living up to its corporate social responsibilities. “We want other oil multinationals to emulate the good gesture of CNL in collaborating with the state government to make life meaningful for the people of the state,” she said.