Former model Amy Dorris has accused Donald Trump of sexually assaulting her more than two decades ago. He forced himself on her at the US Open in 1997, she told the Guardian. Ms Dorris, who was 24 at the time, told the newspaper she felt ‘sick’ and ‘violated’. ‘He just shoved his tongue down my throat and I was pushing him off. And then that’s when his grip became tighter and his hands were very gropey and all over my butt, my breasts, my back, everything,’ she said. I was in his grip, and I couldn’t get out of it. I don’t know what you call that when you’re sticking your tongue just down someone’s throat. ‘But I pushed it out with my teeth. I was pushing it. And I think I might have hurt his tongue.’ She alleged the incident happened outside the bathroom in his VIP box at the tournament in New York on September 5, 1997. But Mr Trump has denied the claims, through his lawyers, in the ‘strongest possible terms’ having ever harassed, abused or behaved improperly toward Ms Dorris. READ ALSO:  “Trump is not serious with US presidency” – Obama The Guardian U.K said Ms Dorris, who lives in Florida, provided evidence to support her account, including her ticket to the US Open and six photos showing her with the now President over several days. Donald  Trump was 51 at the time and married to his second wife, Marla Maples. Several people also corroborated her account, including a friend in New York, Ms Dorris’ mother, and a therapist. Daily Times gathered that Dorris, who is now 48 and a mum to twin daughters, said she had considered speaking publicly about the incident in 2016, when several women made public similar accusations against Mr Trump when he was running for president. But she decided against coming forward, in part because she thought that it might harm her family. ‘Now I feel like my girls are about to turn 13 years old and I want them to know that you don’t let anybody do anything to you that you don’t want,’ she said. And I’d rather be a role model. I want them to see that I didn’t stay quiet, that I stood up to somebody who did something that was unacceptable.’ Ms Dorris said she was also frustrated to hear Trump’s many other accusers being told they were lying. ‘I’m sick of him getting away with this,’ she said, ‘I’m tired of being quiet. It’s kind of cathartic. I just want to get this out. ‘And I want people to know that this is the man, this is our president. This is the kind of thing he does and it’s unacceptable.’