Nigerian billionaire businessman and socialite Terry Waya, popularly known as Mr Versace, is a 55-year-old London-based Tiv man who hails from Benue State, a region in Nigeria’s middle belt. In an exclusive interview with Daily Times, Terry Waya shared his views on his son’s conduct in the Big Brother Nigeria (BBNaija) House, Season 5 lockdown edition. What is the quality he displayed in the Big Brother House that you never knew he had? I have never seen my son as patient as he is in the big brother house. He is someone who has a bit of a temper, i am amazed at his level of patient. As his father how would you describe Kiddwaya? Kiddwaya is very homely, brilliant, articulate, and very respectful. Do you see your son emerging as this year’s winner of the BBNaija season 5 lockdown? Maybe or maybe not cause it’s not like an election, it’s more like a lottery because things do change as you have been following the show those who were at the top are now at the bottom those who are at the bottom are now at the top. One doesn’t know the dynamics of the show we are always waking up to a different game. My son was formerly on the top 5 now he has dropped. Let me give an example one of them was put on eviction three times and is now up, so as I said before it’s an unpredictable game. My son has the qualities to win, if he wins it’s a plus, even if he doesn’t win he has done well. Looking at the relationship between Erica and Kiddwaya what’s your take as a father? I don’t have much to say those are just infatuations and emotions because they are in an enclosed place when he comes out of the Big Brother House if at the end of it all we know. Aside from that in our culture, he is not supposed to be seeing a girlfriend the only time he is to be seen with a girlfriend is when he brings someone home and introduce her as a wife for marriage, what is going on now is all rumors. READ ALSO: Same Nigerians that raised $9000 for Erica can’t protest fuel hike — Reno Omokri What are the plans you have for KiddWaya after big brother? He is 27 when I was his age my dad didn’t know where I was, our parents didn’t marry for us nowadays the reverse is the case we marry for our children that’s why a lot of marriages are collapsing because the two couples know that the wedding is been sponsored by their parents. So they are not independent, when he is back from the house whatever he chooses to do let him do as long as it’s legitimate and not illegal he has my blessings, I think he should take a break first then when he is back he decides what he wants to do.