Nigerian movie star turned pastor, Eucharia Anunobi says side chicks are glorified prostitute and are strange women. READ ALSO: Nigerian Man marries lady he met as an orange seller Daily Times gathered that, the actress who decided to bless her followers with beautiful pictures on instagram, had words of enlightenment along with the picture. Eucharia Anunobi wrote, “Your physical construct has nothing to do with your inner construct . With the grace of God (sense from God ) you operate and regulate life not from outside in but from inside out . Because that your ” glorified dust ” = flesh , booty, well rounded hips , Bosom , face , will certainly depreciate but the contents of your mind will remain ever green and that’s what keeps the men glued long after the warmth of the flesh dies out . You can ask Sarah in the Holy Bible.And it can’t be over emphasized that a virtuous woman is the one with , not just an attractive physical attributes but one endued with the wisdom of God . Therefore a virtuous woman will refuse every advance to be made a side chick . A SIDE CHICK IS A GLORIFIED PROSTITUTE AND A PROSTITUTE IS A STRANGE WOMAN.Receive grace not to be lured !!!!Genesis 18 : 1 – 14 , Proverbs 5 : 3 – 8 , 31 : 10 – 31” Your physical construct has nothing to do with your inner construct . With the grace of God (sense from God ) you operate and regulate life not from outside in but from inside out . Because that your " glorified dust " = flesh , booty, well rounded hips , breast, face , will certainly depreciate but the contents of your mind will remain ever green and that's what keeps the men glued long after the warmth of the flesh dies out . You can ask Sarah in the Holy Bible.  And it can't be over emphasized that a virtuous woman is the one with , not just an attractive physical attributes but one endued with the wisdom of God . Therefore a virtuous woman will refuse every advance to be made a side chick . A SIDE CHICK IS A GLORIFIED PROSTITUTE AND A PROSTITUTE IS A STRANGE WOMAN.  Receive grace not to be lured !!!! Genesis 18 : 1 – 14 , Proverbs 5 : 3 – 8 , 31 : 10 – 31 #notashamedofthegospel  #itinerantpreacher  #trendsetter #model  #actor A post shared by  Eucharia Anunobi (@euchariaanunobi) on Sep 10, 2020 at 12:27pm PDT