The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide has alleged that that there are plots to declare a state of emergency in the southeast region by the Nigerian Army. The group made this known  in a statement signed by its President-General and Secretary-General, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, and Okwu Nnabuike. They stated that if the decision to declare a State of Emergency in the Southeast is achieved, it would bring catastrophic consequences to the peaceful atmosphere being enjoyed in the Southeast at the moment. The group further said that the attempt to declare state of emergency by the army was a calculated attempt to stop the 2023 Igbo Presidency agenda. READ ALSO: We’ll unravel those behind Enugu killings-Ohanaeze Ndigbo The statement read in part, “The recent proclamations of Nigerian Military” that if there’s any more evidence of Killings of Security Agents by Biafra agitators in the Southeast Region could lead to declaration of State of Emergency” as an affront on the people of Southeast, and calculated attempts to create Confusion and tension in the Zone, inasmuch as We are not in Support of any Killings of Igbos and Security Agents in Southeast. “OYC had urge the military to Concentrate on the insecurity Challenges in the Northern region where bandits and Terrorists Organizations like Boko Haram insurgents had wreaked havoc and fear amongst Northerners, there’s heavy fighting over there in North East, We Urge Nigerian Army to declare State of Emergency in the North East before thinking of Southeast. Igbo Youths wish to categorically advise Biafra agitators to maintain their original non violence postures and avoid making inflammatory threats of Killings Security Agents in Reprisal attacks, such decision will surely bring catastrophic consequences to the peaceful atmospheric environment we enjoy in the East. “OYC had uncovered plots by Igbo external detractors to use the recent evidence of fallouts after IPOB clashed with DSS in Enugu to instigate the removal of Southeast Governors, which is part of the Rogue Operations to stop any of them from contesting 2023 Presidential Elections, Igbo Youths are solidly behind the Eastern Governors, who had portrayed themselves as worthy servants of Igbo Nation. “OYC countermands all directives of closure of markets, banks and offices in the Southeast Region, as any order that will bring untold hardship and consequences to the people of Southeast will be surely resisted and Igbo Youths will resist attempts to undermine the Southeast Governors powers as Chief Security Officers of their States, and any nefarious activities to remove a democratically elected Governor Under the guise of declaration of State of Emergency in the Region.” Daily Times reported that the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Nnia Nwodo, while reacting to the killings in Enugu, said that the body will unravel those behind the killings in Enugu.