By Tunde Opalana To avoid divisions capable of causing the All Progressives Congress (APC) another election misfortune in the future, party loyalists in Zamfara state have vowed to close ranks to attain electoral success. Daily Times gathered. Though in a separate statement in Abuja, Tuesday, the Taraba state chapter of the party declared that the former Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Aisha Alhassan popularly known as Mama Taraba is inconsequential in the politics of the state. The former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari said members are ready for true reconciliation of all the feuding members of the party Yari whose faction has engaged the Sen. Kabiru Marafa – led faction in a bitter supremacy battle since 2019 was at the national secretariat of the party where he led a delegation to a meeting with the Chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee, Mai Mala Buni. READ ALSO: Groups organise debate for Akeredolu, Jegede, others However, he said that for there to be a genuine reconciliation, all concerned parties must come with an open mind, while pointing out that most of the supporters of Marafa are already serving in the government of Bello Mohammed Matawwale of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said “we are ready to reconcile with everyone, but not in a situation where you are going to reconcile with somebody who already has his loyalists in the PDP government of the state. He has Secretary to the State Government, he has Commissioners and few other state functionaries there. “But if everyone is ready for reconciliation, we will know how to go about it because we have been in this game since 1999 and by God’s grace we have been seeing the future of the party come 2023.” In another development, the Taraba State chairman of APC, Ibrahim El-Sudi after a meeting at the party’s national secretariat debunked any rumour of division within the party following the defection of Aisha Alhassan, to the opposition United Democratic Party (UDP). Leading a delegation of party stakeholders from Taraba on a courtesy visit to the Chairman, National Caretakers Committee of APC, Mai Mala-Buni, El-Sudi said Taraba APC remains stronger despite the exit of Alhassan. He said ‘Mama Taraba’ as fondly called didn’t get a better deal and fortune in her new party as she was roundly defeated by the APC in the last governorship election. The party chairman said, “As you can see, all the juggernauts, movers and shakers of APC are behind me. So, one person cannot destroy or do anything to APC. After all, when she moved to another party and contested, how many vote did she get? She got 16,000 plus. APC got over three hundred and forty something thousand votes. So, her movement has not shaken APC in Taraba State. It is in the heart of Tarabans that they want APC and they will continue to support APC.” The former minister, Aisha Alhassan who was a founding member of the APC decamped to the UDP in 2019 after failing to secure a governorship ticket on the platform of APC which she co-laboured to found. The state chairman said the reason for the courtesy visit was to present the problem of Taraba State chapter of APC to the Caretaker Committee for them to look into it with the view of solving same. He, however, was hopeful that the Buni – led executive will look into the plight of Taraba APC with the view of solving the the various issues.