Manchester United legend, Gary Neville has predicted that his old club would win the Premier League title again, but only in the wake of significant changes elsewhere. United, who were a force to reckon with both domestically and in Europe under Scottish gaffer, Sir Alex Ferguson, seem to have been left behind, with successive managerial changes failing to re-establish the old Trafford outfit among Europe’s top crème. The former United skipper believes that his old club will recapture its glory days, but is wary to admit that that will only happen when the best two PL managers in Klopp and Guardiola decide to set up shop elsewhere. “The one thing I can guarantee you is that United will win again. That might not be this year or next year, but it will be amazing when they win again, and the longer it builds up, the greater the actual feeling is when you do it. READ ALSO: Rodgers, Vardy hail Ndidi’s centre-back performance “I’m not sitting here, as a United fan, thinking, ‘We must win the league this year’. Yes, we’d like to, but you know when it’s your time and it’s not yet. It will be, maybe, when Klopp and Guardiola leave Liverpool and City – hopefully in the next couple of years! “That will be the chance, as they’re two outstanding managers who have built really good teams, but they’ll leave in the next one, two or three years. That will be the point when United can come back in and capitalise – I’m sure Chelsea are thinking that way as well” Neville told the Mirror. Ryan Giggs, another United legend, concurred, he said: “You’ve got the two best coaches in the world, at pretty settled sides, where they’re just adding players where they need to. “Ole’s a bit further ­behind in that respect, but once that does happen, when Guardiola and Klopp leave, then be ready to strike, with a team that’s capable of winning the league. “Even for the most realistic United fans, just getting closer to Liverpool and City would be the aim this year. “How long has Ole been there now, almost two years? You look at Klopp at Liverpool, he improved every year. Then it was in his fifth year that he won the league. “So you want to see improvement – that’s what United fans want, as well as exciting football, which we’ve seen at times – but just get closer and then have a real go at the Premier League.” Neville expressed doubts that United, who have spent a significant fraction of the transfer window glossing all over the media over the failed transfer of Jadon Sancho can launch any major bid to unsettle Liverpool and City having only brought in Donny Van de Beek to strengthen midfield options. “It’s out of the question for me, if you ask me today, with the squads that they’ve got. If United were to sign two outstanding forwards, an amazing centre-back and a fantastic left-back in the next three weeks, then maybe” he added.