The federal government has reaffirmed its commitment to the protection of schools and learning centres across the country from violence and all forms of attacks. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu who was speaking during an address to   commemorate the first International Day for the Protection of Education from Attack, maintained that the protection of Learners, teaching, non-Teaching personnel, schools and learning centres from all forms of attacks was an obligation of government and all relevant stakeholders. According to a statement by Ben Bem Goong the Director, Press and Public Relations, the minister revealed that the country had endorsed the Safe School Declaration (SSD) to protect all institutions from attack. While acknowledging that schools and other learning facilities in different locations in the country had over the years been subjects of attacks by parties in conflicts and communal clashes especially Boko Haram, Bandits, thugs and unknown individuals and groups, the Minister admonished that there is need for all stakeholders to appreciate and observe the sanctity of learning centres. READ ALSO:  Anambra govt approves reopening of schools Daily Times reports that the minister decried the abduction of chibok girls, Leah Sharibu and other Learners and teachers at places of learning as an infringement on their rights to quality education and called for their immediate release by their abductors. Adamu Adamu stated that Nigeria is committed to observing all existing international protocols on education and freedom of learning as well as child rights to quality education in a protective environment. “As a nation, we are committed to observing all relevant international conventions for the protection of schools and learning centres and facilities from attack. ‘’We recognize the interdependencies of several conventions, treaties and other instruments that would make this possible’’, he said. The minister who further called on different parties in conflicts across the country, to observe the sanctity of learning centres and facilities appealed to armed groups holding abducted students and teachers to release the captives, who he described as innocent casualties of armed insurgency. He also called on communities to take ownership of the protection of schools in their environments as they remain the first point of contacts with the school as well as first-line responders in the event of attack. He also called on security agencies to further make more commitments and efforts at ensuring safety of schools and learning centres. Adamu Adamu, praised the sacrifices of students, teachers and non-teaching staff who have fallen victims of violent attacks describing them as fallen heroes of the many instances of attacks on learning facilities.