By Ukpono Ukpong The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has issued a 14-days ultimatum to the Federal Government to reverse the hike in the price of petrol pump price and electricity tariff, Daily Times gathered. NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, announced the ultimatum shortly after the Central Working Committee meeting of the Congress in Abuja. While briefing Journalists, Wabba disclosed that the CWC of the Congress has also summoned the National Executive Council meeting to delibrate on the next line of action on September 28, should the FG fail to comply with their demands. “We met to discuss the twin challenge of increase in the electricity tariff and pump price of petroleum products and clearly speaking we have looked at particularly workers that earn wages. “We have looked at how it has eroded the purchasing power of workers and importantly, how it has eroded the gains of the N30,000 minimum wage which many workers have not even earned. Many people are at pains now. “The impact of the electricity tariff is the fact that those on in category ‘A’ which they have increased the tariff are the manufacturers, which will transfer the cost on goods and services. That’s why the cost of goods and services are also going up. READ ALSO: My deputy saved me from an ambush by bandits — Buratai “We have discussed the meeting we had with government yesterday and to find out if there’s anything on the table and we told them clearly that there’s nothing and because of all of this, people thought that certainly these issues are issues we have to respond to and fundamentally these are issues that will put many people into poverty especially the working poor. “So it was decided that we issue the statutory two weeks notice to the FG to reverse those decisions and in our own case, the NEC also have to sanction it if you want to undertake such actions. “So we have summon the NEC to meet on Tuesday, September 22, for the action that is been proposed for 28 of this month so invariably this is part of the decision of the Central Working Committee of consisting of all Presidents and Secretary Generals of our affiliate unions.” Recall, that yesterday, the Organised Labour under the auspices of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), met with the Federal Government in a bid to address the issues arising from the increase in the price of fuel and the hike in electricity tariff. The meeting which was adjourned to a yet to be announced date, according to Wabba failed to address the concerns of Nigerians especially the working poor. READ ALSO: New Minimum Wage: Bayelsa Deputy Gov sues for patience