Today, September 12th, the English Premier League (EPL) returns with its characteristic excitement and fan-fair under unusual circumstances which altered the conventional resumption date for domestic leagues across Europe. Despite a significant economic hamstring caused by an unexpected pandemic, big-spending outfits have gone shopping in a bid to re-assert themselves at the top of the summit. Other heavyweights have chosen to adopt a more frugal approach to the new season while others in the likes of Manchester United have spent a major fraction of the transfer window window-shopping. The nether regions of the Premier League have not been shut out of the marketplace, with high profile names joining a number of lower rung teams who will be looking to knock the big boys off their ivory towers. Chelsea has been the busiest side with regard to securing signatures. Following an underwhelming 2019/2020 season which was initially mired by a summer transfer ban, the Blues have launched an all-out transfer bash in an effort to disrupt the two-horse race led by Liverpool and Manchester City in recent years. READ ALSO: 2020/2021 Premier League fixtures released As another exciting premier league season beckons, with all of its characteristic drama, Daily Times takes a look at a few debutants to look out for as they begin their foray in Europe’s most-watched league. 1. Timo WernerThe German forward made a name for himself bulging the net for relatively unknown RB Leipzig which has been punching above its weight in recent years. Blessed with blistering pace and high-level finishing ability, Werner has been one of Europe’s most prolific marksmen for the better part of three years. While there is no guarantee the German will hit the ground running under Frank Lampard, he remains one to watch out for as the EPL returns. 2. James RodriguezThe Columbian’s career has been a mixed grill of highs and lows which, ultimately, has not lived up to extrapolations. After failing to impress at Real Madrid following a stellar outing at the 2014 World Cup held in Brazil, a move to Bavaria would also fail to re-ignite the intrinsic talent of the former Porto man. No doubt still a big name addition for the Evertonians, one may not put it beyond the Columbian golden boy to cause the guys upstairs all sorts of problems. 3. Donny Van de BeekManchester United spent the greater fraction of the transfer window glossing all over the media over the potential capture of the Borrusia Dortmund wonder boy, Jadon Sancho. Disappointingly, negotiations ultimately crumbled as United and Dortmund failed to come to a compromise over Sancho’s valuation. Van de Beek’s signing obviously served as a solution to a different problem, but nonetheless a potentially great addition in view of the former Ajax man’s numbers during his Eridivise days. 4. Rodrigo MorenoPremier League new boys, Leeds United are showing warning signs that they will not be returning to the premier league after a sixteen-year absence as pushovers. Under the direction of the world-class manager, Marcelo Bielsa, Leeds United have embarked on a spending spree of their own, notably by capturing highly rated Spanish attacker, Rodrigo Moreno, from Valencia. Having enjoyed great success at Benfica and Valencia, the Spaniard will, by all means, be the guy to look out for as he makes his premier league debut this weekend. 5. Thiago SilvaDespite playing through his twilight years in the game, Thiago Silva comes to West London highly recommended. With an excellent resumé from his time at Milan and Paris, Silva will prove a key figure in Frank Lampard’s squad which has lacked a defence leader since the departure of club legend, John Terry.