Former President of Nigeria Olusegun Obasanjo, on Thursday, attacked the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration saying the country is “fast drifting to a failed and badly divided state” under his leadership. READ ALSO: Buhari called fuel subsidy a fraud In 2015, is he now a fraudster? — PDP Daily Times gathered that the ex-President said while delivering a speech titled, ‘Moving Nigeria Away from Tipping Over’ at a consultative dialogue. He said, “With what I have seen, read and heard from the rapprochement that you are forging together, I see a ray of hope that Nigeria can be saved from disintegration. “If we are ready to live together in understanding, mutual respect and love with equity, justice, inclusiveness while engendering a sense of belonging and unity of purpose and all hands on deck, we can deal with internal issues of terrorism, organised crimes, banditry, kidnapping, human trafficking, drug, money laundering and corruption. We will then be able to deal successfully with any incoming attack of terrorism, organised crimes, etc; from outside.” Obasanjo also said only self-deluded people would claim that all is well in Nigeria, adding that some are fixated on the 2023 Presidential election instead of working to fix the country. “I believe Nigeria is worth saving on the basis of mutuality and reciprocity and I also believe it can be done through the process of dialogues rather than talking at each other or resorting to violence. It will amount to dangerous and destructive self-delusion for anybody to claim that all is well in Nigeria today.” “Some people are obsessed with 2023. I believe that with death, destruction, debt, disease, deceit, disbelief, disenchantment, doubt and suspicion around, we need to see our way through to 2023 and beyond in some form of unity of purpose, reasonable security, shared values, true democratic practice, inclusiveness and shared society. That is why we are here. No constitution is even permanent; it is dynamic with time and experience,” the ex-president said.