The 40-year-old Actress posted details of her COVID-19 diagnosis on social media, saying she started suffering “mild flu-like symptoms” almost three weeks ago, but that these quickly improved. Now starring in divorce drama The Split, Air is best known for her role in Byker Grove alongside Ant and Dec in the 1990s, after which she went on to present on MTV and the Big Breakfast. Hi Guys. I hope everyone is managing to stay strong and in relatively good spirits during the lockdown. I just wanted to let you know developed mild flu like symptoms and started self isolating 18 days ago, I took a test for some clarity & the results tested positive for Covid19. Thankfully symptoms improved shortly after and my loved ones are not displaying any signs of the virus. I will continue to follow government guidelines & in the meantime I am sending masses of love to you all ❤️ especially those on the front line. I am aware what a privilege it is to be able access tests privately, so I have donated some to friends working for the @NHS. I feel relieved having consulted my gp who has confirmed it is safe to see my daughter again. Happy to answer questions on symptoms or give info on what I did to boost my immune system when I felt at my worst . #Stayhome & #Savelives. #staystrong #selfcare #covid19 #overcorona ✌🏻Donna x A post shared by  Donna Air (@donnaair) on Mar 31, 2020 at 5:18am PDT She is one of a number of stars to test positive for coronavirus, including Hollywood actors Tom Hanks and Idris Elba. In a message on Instagram, she said: “I hope everyone is managing to stay strong and in relatively good spirits during the lock down. “I just wanted to let you know [I] developed mild flu like symptoms and started self isolating 18 days ago, I took a test for some clarity & the results tested positive for Covid19. “Thankfully symptoms improved shortly after and my loved ones are not displaying any signs of the virus. I will continue to follow government guidelines & in the meantime I am sending masses of love to you all ❤️ especially those on the front line.” Aware of “what a privilege it is to be able access tests privately”, Air said she had also donated some to friends who are health workers. READ ALSO  Dangote truck crushes taxi killing six persons The government is under growing pressure to hugely expand its testing programme, especially for NHS workers. Thousands of people have died around the world after testing positive for coronavirus. The disease has made its way into the worlds of sport, film, politics and royalty, with Prince Charles and Boris Johnson also among the confirmed cases in the UK. 