The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), said the lockdown embarked upon to combat the spread of the COVID-19 in the Federal Capital Territory had yielded positive results, as compliance by the people was very high. The FRSC Sector Commander, FCT, Mr. Gora Wobin, said this in an interview on Wednesday in Abuja. Wobin said the level of compliance in the FCT was impressive, adding that the public had stayed home to help in the fight against the scourge. He however, said there were some challenges which the FRSC was ready to fight to ensure everyone was safe from the pandemic. According to him, some people are taking advantage of the window given for those who are exempted, especially uniform men, medicals, security operatives and even journalists. “Those who do not have any assignment outside would still go out just because they are exempted and it is not fair on our part. “This is the only issue we have on ground but by and large, most people who do not have any business out there, who are not on the exemption lists have complied. Even if they come out, they return as soon as possible,” he said. Wobin said it was important for the people to obey government’s directives, saying, “it remained the best way to avoid the spread of the virus.” He added that people now misuse the opportunity given on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays to buy foodstuffs. “With the extension by President, Muhammadu Buhari, the window of going to the market Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays, which people capitalise on to do all sorts of things is for neighbourhood markets. “Neighbourhood markets are where you can trek to, get whatever you want to buy, not to travel from Bwari to Gwagwalada,” he said. Wobin said peculiar cases like a very sick person who needed to be taken to the hospital would be allowed passage for proper treatment. “Of course it would show that such is sick and we allow them passage to go to the hospital to ensure they get the treatment needed,” he added. Wobin pleaded with the people not to relent in complying with the lockdown directive.