…Pays tribute to heroic healthcare workers on May Day occasion As part of immediate measures to revamp Nigeria’s economy from imminent collapse, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to sell off 10 planes in the Presidential Air Fleet, reduce what he called the over – bloated civil service and do away with non – productive expenses. He insisted that if urgent financial steps are not taken by the government, the nation’s economy may cave in to dwindling global economy trends occasioned by the lull in the world oil and gas market. Such steps according to Atiku, include total jettisioning of unwarranted projects such as renovation of the National Assembly complex and other white elephant projects from borrowed money. Urging the government to cut its coat, according to its clothe, Atiku recommended to Buhari that “our Presidential Air Fleet of almost 10 planes should go. Our jumbo budgets for our legislature must go. The planned $100 million renovation of our parliament must be cancelled. “We cannot be funding non- necessities with debt and not expect our economy to collapse.  Our civil servants must come to the realization that Nigeria cannot sustain its size and profligacy. “The same cost saving measures must be adopted by the states and councils government.” Worried that crude oil prices plunged to record levels, he said this present rude awakening should be seen as a blessing in disguise – a blessing that compels Nigeria to take those drastic actions that will free the nation from the crude oil trap. In an opinion article titled: “How to pull Nigeria from the brink,” the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 general election said from henceforth, government’s energies, resources and focus, must be on how we to diversify the  economy, not on how to increase expenditure. “Nigeria is at the lowest point we have ever been as a nation. We have over indulged on seemingly cheap loans and have quadrupled our foreign debt in just four years. “Taking more of such loans will just sink our country deeper and deeper into a quagmire. What is certain is that we cannot continue with things the way they are now, except we want to ensure an implosion of our dearly beloved nation,” he said. Atiku said the government must face the fact that reliance on crude oil is failing the nation and other mono -product economics, adding that is the time for Nigeria and her contemporaries to cure their addiction to sweet crude. “If you are still talking about oil, you are in the past. As far as I am concerned, the era of oil is gone. If you want to believe it, believe it. If you do not want to believe it, you will see it. “It is crude thinking to continue to talk and base development projections on crude oil,” he said. In a separate statement, Atiku commended the Nigerian heath workers for their patriotism since the advent of the novel coronavirus in the country. He used the occasion of this year’s Workers’ Day to appreciate the frontline workers in combating the plague which has spread to 33 states and the FCT with 1,728 confirmed cases and 51 deaths, as at April 29. Atiku said, due to the heroic healthcare workers, 307 persons, including his son, Mohammed, were successfully treated and discharged.