Popular Yoruba film maker, Kunle Afolayan has revealed that he wants to fall in love again, but this time around with a lady from Korea. Kunle who made this known on his Instagram handle, revealed the possibility of featuring a Korean in his next movie, while he expressed his new found love for their (Korean) movies. He wrote: “I WANT TO FALL IN LOVE AGAIN But with a Korean I am a filmmaker and a dedicated one for that matter. I have worked with exceptional talented actors and actresses in the past and we have quite number of them in Nigeria.I have been really stuck with Korean series during this isolation period and I have learned and discovered so many things.The honest truth is, We really need more creative and deep writers in Nigeria and this is not to disrespect or talk down on the amazing ones we presently have.Let’s look at it from this point. I know and understand the tricks in the make-believe world yet, I cried and cried, smiled, laugh out loud, giggle, rolled on the floor in between just one series. Apart from the damn production value which include great sound, amazing picture quality, nice convincing sets and locations. Pabanbari gbogbo e ni the outstanding acting and performances. Last night, I felt like falling in love again while watching ”Crash landing on you”I recommend it and thanks to my fans who are also fans of Korean films/series for recommending it. Ire” I WANT TO FALL IN LOVE AGAIN But with a Korean 😬 I am a filmmaker and a dedicated one for that matter. I have worked with exceptional talented actors and actresses in the past and we have quite number of them in Nigeria. I have been really stuck with Korean series during this isolation period and I have learned and discovered so many things. The honest truth is, We really need more creative and deep writers in Nigeria and this is not to disrespect or talk down on the amazing ones we presently have. Let's look at it from this point. I know and understand the tricks in the make-believe world yet, I cried and cried, smiled, laugh out loud, giggle, rolled on the floor in between just one series. Apart from the damn production value which include great sound, amazing picture quality, nice convincing sets and locations. Pabanbari gbogbo e ni the outstanding acting and performances. Last night, I felt like falling in love again while watching ”Crash landing on you” I recommend it and thanks to my fans who are also fans of Korean films/series for recommending it. Ire #koreanseries #southkorea A post shared by  Kunle Afolayan (@kunleafo) on Apr 9, 2020 at 5:29am PDT