Mixed reactions have trailed the statement released by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and addressed to essential service providers on payment of taxes during the COVID-19 lockdown In a personally signed press release, Executive Chairman of FIRS, Muhammad Nami acknowledged the difficulties being faced by businesses as the COVID-19 pandemic ravages on. “Nonetheless, we wish to acknowledge that some sectors such as Telcos, financial institutions, e-commerce, supermarkets, manufacturers of certain products are experiencing a boom due to increased transactions as a result of the lockdown or even despite the pandemic. Police arrest 288 suspects at worship centres, strip clubs, parties in Lagos “In view of the above, I wish to specially make an appeal to corporate bodies in the sectors mentioned above to go the extra mile at this time to cooperate with us in making special arrangements to pay their taxes,” Nami’s statement read in part. Reacting to the statement, A Twitter user @ronaldnzimora wrote: “Buhari’s FIRS on its own determined that business are “experiencing boom” during a pandemic and then went ahead to ask for taxes to be paid EARLY, based on the figment of its own imagination.” Another Twitter user, @obinwosu wrote: “Nigerian Banks and Telcos are reporting huge profits in Q1 2020. Presently, we all buy recharge card from our banks, they have collected the commission of “daily bread” sellers sitting hungry at home due to COVID-19. FIRS should go and collect taxes from Banks and Telcos cashing out.” “I am so pissed off right now. To think that some are angry with FIRS! Telecommunications companies are making a kill right now: more phone calls, more data purchases, as people use their devices more during the pandemic. Is it wrong to as them to pay their taxes? Common!”, @tomudenwa tweeted. @ccchukwubelu tweeted: “The statement from the FIRS chairman begs the question, “does he understand how the wider economy works”. We do he assume that with fewer businesses in operation, there will be more phone calls – & hence, more revenue for telecom firms?” @naijadailyfx wrote: “Nigeria is just a country powered by Idiots. After failing to diversify the economy, stealing every aid and returned loot this government feels the best way to make more money this period is to use the FIRS to tax companies barely surviving in order to support their cash-flow gap.” @ibrahimkudus tweeted: “Hmm Nigeria Twitter users are just funny and ignorantly complaining, @firsNigeria asking telcos, financial institutions etc. to pay their taxes while experiencing boom…don’t know either they’re using free data/bank charges..”