The International Air Transport Association (IATA) published a new analysis showing that airlines may burn through $61 billion of their cash reserves during the second quarter ending 30 June 2020, while posting a quarterly net loss of $39 billion. This analysis is based
on the impact assessment IATA released last week, under a scenario in which
severe travel restrictions last for three months. In this scenario, full-year
demand falls by 38 per cent and full-year passenger revenues drop
by $252 billion compared to 2019. The fall in demand would be the
deepest in the second quarter, with a 71 per cent drop. The impact will be
severe, driven by the following factors: Revenues are expected to fall by
68 per cent. This is less than the expected 71per cent fall in demand due to the
continuation of cargo operations, albeit at reduced levels of activity Variable costs are expected to drop sharply—by some 70 per cent in the second quarter—largely in line with the reduction of an expected 65 per cent cut in second-quarter capacity. The price of jet fuel has also fallen sharply, although we estimate that fuel hedging will limit the benefit to a 31 per cent decline. COVID-19 Scare: Experts suspect deceased died of gastroenteritis Fixed and semi-fixed
costs amount to nearly half an airline’s cost.  We expect semi-fixed costs
(including crew costs) to be reduced by a third. Airlines are cutting what they
can while trying to preserve their workforce and businesses for future
recovery. These changes to
revenues and costs result in an estimated net loss of $39 billion in
the second quarter. On top of unavoidable
costs, airlines are faced with refunding sold but unused tickets as a result of
massive cancellations resulting from government-imposed restrictions on travel.
The second quarter liability for these is a
colossal $35 billion.  Cash burn will be severe. We estimate
airlines could be burning through $61 billion of their cash balances
in the second quarter. “Airlines cannot cut
costs fast enough to stay ahead of the impact of this crisis. We are looking at
a devastating net loss of $39 billion in the second quarter. The
impact of that on cash burn will be amplified by a $35 billion
liability for potential ticket refunds. Without relief, the industry’s cash
position could deteriorate by $61 billion in the second quarter,”
said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director General and CEO.