Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state and his wife, Prof. Hafsat Abdullahi Ganduje, have both tested negative for the novel coronavirus, the deadly disease ravaging the globe. In a press release signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mallam Abba Anwar, explained that immediately after receiving the results, Gov. Ganduje reiterated his commitment to apply proactive measures against the COVID -19 pandemic. “We thank Almighty Allah for this result which shows negative. That is how He (Allah) wishes. All those whose results are positive, we will continue praying for their quick recovery from the illness. Irrespective of race, nationality, ethnicity, social status, political or religious affiliations,” he said. The governor also prayed for Allah’s continued protection against COVID-19 in the state, the country and the world in general, adding that “while we pray for divine intervention, we must make sure that we always listen to health professionals and work with their professional advice.” Gov. Ganduje urged members of the public to observe regular hand washing with running water, usage of hand sanitizer, keep tidy environment, avoid gatherings, particularly in markets and other public places among others. He emphasized further that “staying at home is safer, healthier and most appropriate. I also urge Nigerians to strictly abide by directives given by the federal government as another mechanism in containing the spread of the disease. “It is our responsibility to see that this deadly COVID-19 is fought from all angles, so as to have safer and healthier society. We thank Almighty Allah that up to this time there is no reported case in Kano. May Allah save those from other states in the country and other affected nations of the world.” Gov. Ganduje reiterated his commitment in making sure that the directive given by the state government on boundary closure is strictly observed and assured that any defaulter caught would face the wrath of the law. He used the opportunity to thank the state task force on COVID-19, chaired by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Nasiru Gawuna and co-Chaired by Prof. Abdulrazaq Habibu and all members of the committee and all health workers over their unrelenting efforts against the coronavirus. “Our thanks also goes to the fund raising committee, under the Chairmanship of Prof. Muhammad Bello, vice chancellor, Bayero University, Kano and co-chaired by Alhaji Tajuddeedn Dantata and all those who have sent it donations to the fund,” he added.