Phil Neville will leave his role as England women’s 
manager when his contract expires next year, the Football Association 
confirmed on Friday. The former Manchester United 
and England defender’s deal would have seen him take charge of the 
Lionesses’ European championship campaign on home soil next year. However, the reorganisation of the football calendar due to coronavirus means UEFA has now moved the women’s Euros to 2022. “Following
 UEFA’s decision to postpone the UEFA Women’s EURO to 2022, Phil Neville
 has confirmed he is committed to honouring the full term of his 
contract with The FA, which will see him leave the role in July 2021,” 
the FA said in a statement. Neville is also now unlikely to take 
charge of the Great Britain team at next year’s Olympics, with the FA 
keen for his successor to get tournament experience before the Euros. “In  the best interests of the England Women’s team, both parties were in  agreement that our shared priority was to ensure the Lionesses have  continuity of coaching going into the home EURO and looking towards the  2023 FIFA World Cup,” said the FA’s director of women’s football Sue  Campbell. Treat everybody presented for ailment as potential COVID-19 patient, NMA tells members “We will now discuss next steps with the British Olympic
 Association and the home nations with regard to Team GB Football and we
 are not in a position to make any further comment at this time.” After
 taking charge in January 2018, Neville quickly made a big impact as 
England won the high-profile SheBelieves Cup for the first time and 
pushed world champions the United States all the way before losing a 
pulsating World Cup semi-final 2-1 last year. However, England’s 
form has unravelled since, with a run of seven defeats in 11 games 
leaving even Neville himself questioning whether he was the right man to
 take them forward. “As a result of the changes to the proposed 
tournament scheduling we will now be working to plan for a revised match
 calendar once it is safe and appropriate to do so,” said Neville. “I
 am looking forward to getting back to work with the team as soon as 
possible. We have a fantastic squad of players and there is plenty to 
work on as we look to progress as a team going into 2021.