Some residents of Bauchi have cried out over the hike in prices of food items mostly used during the Ramadan fast. Our correspondent who went round the markets reports on Monday that prices of most food items have increased as a result of COVID-19 lockdown. Mrs. Fatima Isiaku told our correspondent that a bag of sugar was sold at N27,000 as against the price of N15,000 in March last month. She said that a bag of millet now sold for N15,000 against N10,000, adding that the increase was not fair to buyers. Reactions trail query of female Immigration officers in ‘bopdaddy challenge’ “Even with lockdown, food is part of essential services, so I don’t understand the reason for such increment,” she said. Also, Alhaji Ibrahim Suleiman, a buyer, said that with the countdown to Ramadan, goods such as millet, rice, sugar and potatoes were the food items used by Muslim faithful during Ramadan. “A bag of Irish potatoes is sold for N18,000, can you imagine? “People are preparing for Ramadan and the restriction of COVID-19, yet some are busy thinking of ways to exploit fellow Nigerians. “Government and manufacturers should come out and end this hike in prices because it is not fair, no palliative and the traders are not considerate,” he said. Another buyer, Mr. Mohammed Inuwa, advised traders not to use the pandemic and fasting periods for their self-gain, rather they should assist by not hiking prices of their goods. He acknowledged that philanthropists, Non-Governmental Organisations and institutions were dedicated toward supporting the vulnerable members of the society by donating food items to reduce the hardship. He also called on the traders to reconsider the prices as Ramadan was about to set in. In their separate reactions, some of the traders told NAN that several factors were responsible for hike in prices of some commodities. A rice seller, Malam Abubakar Faruq said that the prices were determined by the export and import rates. According to him, prices of local rice and other food items produced in Nigeria remained the same. Another seller, Mr. Ibrahim Sani said presently the goods were not affordable to small traders due to increase in the prices from source.