The Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has flagged off the fumigation exercise of the entire state as part of efforts to protect the State and her citizens from the deadly Coronavirus. The flag-off which took place at the popular Terminus Market Roundabout was done amidst heavy downpour and deserted street due to lockdown. Governor Lalong while delivering his address said the exercise is in continuation of Government efforts at fighting the Coronavirus Pandemic that is ravaging the world. “Our mission here is to begin the fumigation of the entire State against the Corona Virus Disease. “Since the outbreak of the disease, our Government has taken several steps aimed at ensuring that the disease does not come into the State”.He said the State has also been preparing in the unfortunate event of recorded cases to ensure . Good Friday: Tanker explosion averted in Lagos “Although no case has been recorded yet in Plateau State as at today, we cannot relax. We have to remain vigilant and proactive, that is why we announced a total lockdown of the State, which began some hours ago. “During this period, the entire State will be fumigated. All Public places such as markets, Streets, Office Premises among others will be fumigated. In addition to the fumigation, the lockdown will also help us reduce any tendency for inter-State transfer of the disease and enable us respond appropriately to any suspected case and contact tracing”, Lalong  said. While reassuring the State of government readiness to tackle the pandemic, the Governor said the State shall be getting a Testing Centre in the coming days, which will also boost the capacity to identify any case faster. “These are difficult and unusual times for not only Plateau State, but also the world at large, Ordinarily, we should not be doing an event like this on a Good Friday, but the times warrant this and we have continued to appeal for the patience and understanding of our citizens. “For our Christian brothers and sisters, let us use this Solemn Easter Friday to cry unto God within our homes to show us mercy and remove this pandemic”, the Governor said.