Responding to the March 26 international appeal of the Red Cross, Heineken has announced that it is donating €15 million to support the International Federation of Red Cross relief efforts for the most vulnerable people affected by Covid-19, in particular in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The firm in a statement made
available to newsmen in Lagos, said this measures have been taken since the beginning
of the COVID -19 outbreaks to support the health and livelihood of employees
and communities in which it operates. Chairman of the
Executive Board and CEO, Jean-François van Boxmeer said, “For over 100 years
the Red Cross has worked tirelessly to save lives around the world. Now more
than ever, we want to offer them our support in the work they do to help the
most vulnerable beat COVID 19. According to him, “Our thoughts are with all those affected by Covid-19 and the people working tirelessly to care for them. In this unprecedented situation, at Heineken we have been following from the start of the outbreak three guiding principles: First, the health, safety and trust of our people is of paramount importance. Second, we do everything we can to safeguard the continuity of our business and appeal of our brands, which includes supporting the business continuity of our customers and suppliers. And, third, through our local initiatives, we offer our support to the communities who are most impacted by the pandemic.” Ex-Finance Minister, Okonjo-Iweala Gets IMF Appointment In view of those
principles, Heineken has made the following commitments: For its people: to
support the health and safety of its employees, the company is ensuring that
those employees, who work in production and distribution, follow strict hygiene
and  social distancing guidelines and
receive support to do their jobs safely. Furthermore, to provide security to
its employees, Heineken commits until the end of 2020, it will not carry out structural
layoffs, as a consequence of COVID-19. For its customers, the
company is scaling up initiatives in support of on-trade customers across markets
in all regions, while for its suppliers; it is committed to paying suppliers at
agreed payment terms and will support its most vulnerable small and medium
sized suppliers through early payments. For its communities, it
is deploying multiple local initiatives across its global operations in support
of those who are at the front line of the COVID-19 fight. These include the
donation of water and non-alcoholic beverages, the production of hand sanitisers
and monetary contributions to front line medical facilities.