No fewer than 5,000 indigent citizens have benefited from the conditional cash transfer under the household uplifting programme initiated by the federal government to fight poverty and other attendant menaces in the Ekiti state. The beneficiaries, who were drawn from the 16 local government areas of the state, received between N20,000 and N60,000, representing the up -to -date payment alongside the outstanding stipends. Speaking while flagging -off the national Conditional cash transfer programme executed in partnership with the Ekiti state government on Tuesday, the Governor of Ekiti state, Kayode Fayemi, said the programme was meant to alleviate the level of poverty among poor Nigerians. Gov. Fayemi, represented by the Special Adviser, Office of Transformation and Delivery, Prof Bolaji Aluko said: “This is part of the programmes packaged by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to uplift the standard of living of the poor masses and Ekiti people are benefitting owing to recognition of our strong support for the federal government. “We decided to give you this cash at this time when COVID 19 scourge is rearing its ugly head, so that you can use the fund to support yourselves and prevent hunger because the economy is presently facing challenges owing to lockdown pronouncement in Ekiti to stop the spread of the disease. “A total of 5,000 indigent populace who had been captured and had been enlisted on a single register will benefit. It is for the poorest of the poor and only those that deserve it will continue to enjoy it. “On Monday, our government began the distribution of food and other stimulus packages to 20,000 Ekiti indigent citizens to make our aged, widows and other vulnerable live happily well. “The programme is a household scheme, so give to your neighbours and others living with you under the same roof. “We are also assuring the beneficiaries that we will put all necessary frameworks in place to prevent people from mismanaging a scheme meant for the poor and less privileged.” The Special Adviser, Social Investment Programme to Gov. Fayemi, Mr. Victor Kolade , said the state government had also reenacted what he called ‘owo arugbo’ to complement the social safety nets and palliatives being offered by the federal government. “Ekiti has keyed into the social investment programmes like the N-power, school feeding programme and others. We have even established more outfits to help the poor and make them overcome poverty. “I want you to bury that erroneous impression that government money is free and can be spent anyhow. I want to plead with you to make judicious use of this support,” he advised.