…Decries lopsideness in FG’s CCT The Member representing Anambra East and West in the House of Representatives, Hon. Chinedu Benjamin Obidigwe, has called on ndi Anambra to help the state government in the fight against Coronavirus by obeying directives from Government. He made the appeal shortly after the 3rd official public address of the Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, on the state’s fight against Coronavirus disease. “I dispassionately sympathise with families of all those that lost their lives last week. It is very painful because, life is fundamental in everything we do. No circumstances should be justified when a life is lost. My appeal to ndi Anambra is to realise that, we are interested in human life. Despite the fact that you have right to your life, endangering others this period is not good. Regrettably, we have lost lives in the enforcement of this order. More painful is the fact that these deaths were avoidable but we have seen how it ended. The security agencies too must realise that human rights is key even in the discharge of their duties. I appeal to ndi Anambra to be a little more patient. We are hopeful that, sooner than we think, God will heal our land and this too, shall pass,” he said. Obidigwe used the opportunity to thank the state government and Ndi Anambra both at home and abroad for their support so far in the fight against COVID-19. “I thank His Excellency, Chief Willie Obiano and ndi Anambra for their supports so far in the fight against Coronavirus. We have never seen this type of health crisis in our life time, but we thank God for the level of preparedness of the State Government in handling the crisis. I am optimistic that, God will keep Anambra safe so that, we will be among the first set of state to be declared Coronavirus free in Nigeria,” Obidigwe said. He also decried the lopsidedness of the Federal Government in the ongoing Credit Cash Transfer to the poor, saying that the impact of the exercise is yet to be felt effectively in Anambra State.