Three COVID-19 patients have been discharged in Bauchi state following their recovery from the deadly disease, the state Chairman, Taskforce on Lassa fever and COVID-19 response committee, Senator Baba Tela has said. He said that the three coronavirus patients that were under management have been discharged, bringing the total discharged to four out of the six initial positive cases after they were tested negative. Sen. Tela, who is also the deputy governor of the state, stated this on Thursday while briefing journalists at the Government House, Bauchi. He said that out of the six index positive cases in the state, one tested negative after the second sample tests at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Abuja. The deputy governor further explained that out of the five remaining cases sent for re-evaluation, two that have been in isolation were tested negative twice and  will be possibly discharged soon. He maintained that out of the three active cases in admission, two of the results came out negative, adding that one of them tested negative twice and has also been discharged on Thursday. The committee chairman said the other sample which has tested negative for the first time after completing 14 days in isolation will get his sample sent for testing within 24 hours and will be discharged if he remains negative. The deputy governor explained that the last active index case has also completed 14 days isolation today and his sample will be taken today, and will also be discharged if he turns out negative. “So, what we are saying now is that as at Thursday, Bauchi state has only two cases on admission and one of them have done his 14 days and we will send his sample for testing. “The second one, his first testing came out negative and we are sending his sample for the second test after which he will be discharged if it turns out negative the second time,” he added. Sen. Tela, who further explained that a total of 160 samples have been taken for testing, added that over 400 contacts are being traced. He disclosed that the state has been able to procure 1, 000 pieces of the medium used to convey the samples to NCDC office in Abuja for testing, saying that the development will now ease transporting of the sample. The deputy governor also hinted that Governor Bala Mohammed has approved the immediate release of N25 million to fight against Lassa fever that has claimed lives in the state. The committee chairman said that the state government has ordered the immediate closure of the two popular second hand cloth markets until further notice to prevent the spread of the virus in the state. “It has been observed that the merchants of the second hand clothes always comes from other places where the cases are more pronounced. It is necessary for government to close the markets to avoid any possible regret in future,” he explained. Tela further announced the receipt of a donation from the First City Monument Bank (FCMB) to fight the spread of the coronavirus virus disease in the state. Also, the Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN) as well as the Bauchi state University, Gadau donated hand sanitizers, facemasks and other personal protective gears to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the state.