A young nursing mother in her early thirties, Mrs. Esther Frank, has committed suicide in Uyo, Akwa Ibom state. In her suicide note left behind for her husband and children, Mrs. Frank, an indigene of Anambra state, said she was tired of life pressures. The suicide notes reads: “Please take care of my children please. I can’t take the pressure and lies you are telling again. I can’t take it, please it’s too much. You made everyone around me to hate me. Please forgive me, am sorry.” “Gerald please forgive me. Andre please forgive me. You guys are my life,” she wrote to her children. Our correspondent gathered that the deceased drank a bottle of sniper on April 9 and laid down unconscious in her room before she was discovered by neighbours. It was also gathered that neighbours rushed the deceased to St. Luke’s Hospital in Anua, Uyo, where she was confirmed dead by doctors. Narrating the incident on Friday in Uyo, an eyewitness and neighbour to the deceased, Mrs. Iboro Etuk, said she and the deceased discussed before the incident. Etuk said they both stood outside the gate of their compound to buy water before the deceased told her to take care of her children as she was going out to buy something. Continuing, she explained that when she later heard the baby of the deceased crying continuously, she went inside the house of the deceased and discovered that she was unconscious on the floor. She said efforts to revive the deceased proved abortive as a bottle of sniper was found beside her, forcing neighbours to raise an alarm which attracted the landlady. According to her, they rushed the deceased to the hospital where she died, leaving behind a three -month-old baby and three -year-old son. “Mrs. Esther Frank was in her early thirties. She just graduated from the university, and is yet to go for her youth service. She is from Anambra state while her husband, Mr. Frank is from Delta state, but he is currently in Dubai. “She sent her three -year old -boy to come and stay with my children. It has never happened before. She told me that she was going to buy something, please take care of my children’. “When the landlady called her husband and told him his wife was dead, he exclaimed ‘What?’. According to her sister, she (the deceased) has been threatening to kill herself and had sent her husband a message threatening to kill herself. “The children are currently staying with my family. The baby cried throughout the night. I am now the one taking care of the baby. “The police were here to investigate the matter. They are aware that we have taken temporary custody of the children,” she stated. In a telephone interview, the Akwa Ibom state Police Public Relations Officer, Nndum Fredrick, said he was yet to be briefed on the incident.