…Naira Marley in police custody The Chief Mgistrate Court Ogba, has sentenced famous actress, Funke Akindele Bello and her husband, Abdul Rasheed Bello to 14 days of community service, with a fine of N100,000 each. The couple were arraigned on Monday for breaking the Lagos State Government order on social distancing, to celebrate a birthday party at their Amen Estae home, at Ajah, Ibeju-Lekki axis, Lagos, which had over 20 persons in attendance. Breaking: Naira Marley submit self to police The social distancing directive by the state government is contained in Regulation  8(1)(a) and (b) & 17(1)(i) of the Lagos State Infectious Disease (Emergency Prevention) Regulations 2020. The Court had also ordered the couple to present the names of all who attended the party as they would be placed on isolation by the state government to determine their COVID-19 status. In a statement by the Lagos State Police Command on the arraignment of the couple, it was disclosed that Azeez Fashola a.k.a Naira Marley is now in Police custody. The statement signed by the Lagos Police public Relations Officer, Elkana Bala reads:  “ The two accused persons held a party at their residents with over 20 persons in attendance contrary to the social distancing directives made in pursuant to Regulation  8(1)(a) and (b) & 17(1)(i) of the Lagos State Infectious Disease (Emergency Prevention) Regulations 2020 and therefore committed an offence under Section 58 of the Public Health Law Cap P16 Vol. 9, Laws of Lagos State 2015. “Funke Akindele Bello and her husband Abdul Rasheed Bello were arraigned in Chief Magistrate Court 1 Ogba on one count charge. They were brought to Court by detectives from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Yaba led by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Yetunde Longe. “ The prosecuting team was lead by the Hon Attorney General of Lagos State, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN. The charge was read to the accused persons by the Court and they pleaded guilty. The Court found them guilty as charged and sentenced as follows: The defendants are to pay a fine of N100,000 each, sentenced to 14 days community service, three hours per day, excluding Saturday and Sunday. “ Each defendant shall visit 10 important public places within Lagos State to educate the public on the consequences of non compliance with the restriction order; and they must submit the names and phone numbers of every person who attended the party. “ They shall be placed on isolation by the State Government to determine their COVID-19 status. Failure to abide by the above directives shall attract more severe punishments. Azeez Fashola a.k.a Naira Marley is now in Police custody. He will also be charged to Court for violating the restriction orders.” The Command also stated that manhunt had been launched to find the remaining persons who attended the party. Also, the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command, CP Hakeem Odumosu expressed his profound gratitude to Lagosians and other well meaning Nigerians that speak up against the violations, saying, “ Together we canaatop the spread of COVID-19. ”