The Governor of Rivers state, Nyesom Wike, has declared that his administration would continue to work towards keeping Rivers safe in line with his constitutional responsibility of protecting everyone living in the state. Speaking at the Government House, Port Harcourt, during the presentation of the recent achievements of ‘Operation Sting’ by the state Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura on Monday, Gov. Wike commended security agencies in the state for working with the state government to check the activities of criminals. He said: “I have made a vow that Rivers state must be safe. It is a duty that we are committed to carry out.  We have no excuses to give.” Gov. Wike said that as the state government fought to protect Rivers people from coronavirus, it would not relent in ensuring the security of lives and property. He urged the media to also focus on the successes of the state security council in the area of securing lives in the state, adding that bursting the kidnap syndicate was a major achievement by ‘Operation Sting’. He said: “Coronavirus is a serious war. Then add this to the fight against insecurity and you understand that it is not easy for us. But, we shall continue to work for the security and safety of our people. “We don’t want anyone to politicise the issue of security.  We also don’t want anyone to politicise the fight against coronavirus.” Gov. Wike said that the weapons recovered by the police during their operation could dislodge Port Harcourt City and wondered what the criminals were doing with sub- machine guns and rocket grenade launchers. He said that operatives of ‘Operation Sting’ were on the heels of a notorious Isiokpo kidnapper, who would soon be apprehended and prosecuted. “We give God the glory for keeping us safe in Rivers state even as we battle this coronavirus pandemic. Rivers state government is working to keep our people safe, yet some criminals want to make the state insecure,” he said. Earlier, the Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura commended the governor for his logistical support that has energised the security outfit to achieve notable success. He said that ‘Operation Sting’ initiated by Gov. Wike has sanitised the hitherto troublesome East West Road, the Elele-Owerri Road and the Ogoni axis of the East West Road, making the state safer for residents and visitors. The police commissioner assured that the security agencies would continue to work hard to protect lives and property in the state. Dandaura said that the state police command recovered the arms from Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area, following credible intelligence, adding that the kidnap syndicate hid the arms underground in the forest. He said the police recovered several deadly arms and ammunitions in the forest including one rocket launcher and grenades.