The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) is not happy with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), over its many critical positions on the actions of the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government, the group has therefore likened the party to a bull in a China shop READ ALSO:  COVID-19: 15 inmates get state pardon in Oyo This, according to the group, is clear from the party’s constant thoughtless and knee-jerk reaction to every single action of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, BMO said PDP had been acting in the most irresponsible and reckless manner since the Covid-19 outbreak According to the group, “It is shocking that PDP broke its own record of irascibility by issuing yet another tasteless statement within minutes of President Buhari’s nationwide address on the pandemic, rather than heed the advice of Nigerians to join a non-partisan effort against coronavirus. “In a bid to quickly put out a response, the party simply did a rehash of what has in recent weeks earned it a rebuke from well-meaning Nigerians who were tired of the constant politicisation of a global health crisis. “For the party, it’s always about attempting to pick holes, but again PDP ended up exposing itself as a gathering of tactless and irresponsible people who are not concerned about the citizenry. “So not surprisingly, the same bunch that were against a lockdown of the epicentre of Covid-19 in Nigeria are also criticising the decision to reopen the states in phases, with flimsy, pointless arguments. “We want to put it on record that a PDP that had no qualms about holding political meetings, congresses and rallies in the middle of a pandemic cannot be said to be interested in the welfare of the people. “There is also no sign of a coordinated effort by the opposition to offer any form of creative support to the PDP-controlled states, yet its leaders are quick to condemn all government efforts to stem the spread of the virus.” The group, however, noted that the Federal Government had since February been taking steps to mitigate the adverse effects of the pandemic on the country. “Contrary to the opposition’s irresponsible claims, the Nigerian authorities have been alive to their responsibilities even before the first index case was recorded. “Nigeria may have had over 1000 cases but it clearly could have been more without the lockdown which made contact tracing and active case search easier in a country of about 200 million people, aside from the improved Covid-19 testing capacities with 15 laboratories in place. “On the socio-economic side, there is the immediate cash relief to the poorest of the poor as well as the release of 70,000 metric tons of grains from the Strategic grain reserve, and 153 truck-load of seized imported rice to state governments for distribution to Nigerians as palliatives. “This is aside from a three-month moratorium for beneficiaries of Trader Moni and Market Moni as well as those who took loans from government institutions. Then there is Central Bank’s N3.5tn stimulus package for businesses impacted negatively by Covid-19 which also include the N50bn Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) rolled out as a stimulus package to support households and small businesses.At the last count, over 80,000 applications have been received and are being attended to. “But all these clearly do not mean much to a party that is always prepared to latch on to anything to present the country and its institutions in a bad light, even when Nigerians recognize that PDP left the country in terrible shape after 16 years in power.” It also urged residents of Kano not to see the President’s decision to impose a fresh two-week lockdown on the state as a punishment, but to view it as a necessary step to avert a catastrophe, as well as get to the root of ‘mystery deaths’ in Nigeria’s most densely populated state.