Many Nigerians have called for the arrest of Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele and her husband for celebrating her husband, JJC Skillz’s birthday on Saturday COVID-19: No mass infection in our estate – NNPC See the Crowd at Funke Akindele’s Party with Naira Marley in attendance, Eniola Badmus and people who just barely returned from the UK.I want to believe that every single person in this room is well educated and was well informed about the pandemic. Arrest all of them! pic.twitter.com/K2aPNFyhE9 Akindele and  her husband, JJC Skillz had a house party which had other stars and some residence of Amen Estate in attendance. A large number of people including  Eniola Badmus and Naira Marley were seen drinking, eating and dancing in a video that has gone virail According to  JJC Skillz: ‘Thank for all the love and support. Had a wonderful birthday Although we were on lockdown. The residence of Amen Estate came out for me. Don’t worry people. We are all isolated in #Amenestate  God… Akindele  on her Instrgarm page wrote:”  husband. The Lord will grant you  life and good health. Thank you for being a sweetheart! ” Our home will always be peaceful and the Lord will continue to bless us. Enjoy your day my king,” she wrote. But many Nigerians see this as flagrant disobedience to government order during this COVID-19 Lockdown and social distancing  hence calling for her arrest ‘Make them just pack everybody  attend that  Akindele party.. Everybody Plus JJC plus Naira Marley.. Plus Eniola All of them..  Bring them come live television.. Any channel Flog them correct cane!!! Like 24 strokes each. ‘ Salman@NotJustSalmanPR said: Sidney pranked us, he got away with it. If the government doesn’t arrest everyone that attended that Funke Akindele’s house party, Maybe everyone should just go back to their normal lives and let the virus kill all of us alajo of unilag@Femioshi1 said: Someone said if the government doesn’t arrestFunke akindele, we should all go back to our normal lives and let the virus kill who it wants to killll…….. Lamooooooo OMOTAYO Of Lagos @Tee_Classiquem1 said: If by the end of today, Lagos state government are yet to arrest everyone that attended that Funke  Akindele‘s party, then I’ll be forced to resume work first thing tomorrow morning King Nonny @Zaddy_nomso·said: If Football can be Shutdown, Weddings dismissed, Markets Closed what’s a Birthday Party that JJC & Funke Akindele postpone. While some NG still think Covid 19 is a scam, this reckless irresponsibility has worsened it. If any attendee gets Positive? Arrest them Daddy DO@DOlusegun – Supposedly sensible people are abusing me for calling for the arrest of Funke Akindele and her Husband. CONNECT WITH ZARIA@ZARIACONNECT said: “Insensible people”, let’s not even sugarcoat what they are. No right thinking person should even doubt for a second that the yeyebrity couple should be arrested coz if we can hold Imams/Pastors to account for flouting a govt directive, no one else should be exempted. Nigerians drag popular actress, Funke Akindele and her husband for throwing a birthday party amidst Lagos Lockdown due to the Covid-19. • • The actress and her husband, JJCSkillz hosted a birthday party on the 4 April,2020, to celebrate the birthday of the Nigerian Musician(JJCSkillz) • • Whether or not the veteran actress and her husband flouted the Lagos State Government order of not having more than 25 people in a single gathering, it is not known. • • • • • #TheSnappyMagazine #Nigeria #FunkeJenifaAkindele #Jenifa #Actress #JjcSkillz #CoronaVirusUpdates #SocialDistancing #Quarantine #Explore #Explorepage #StaySafe #Covid19Nigeria #SnappyNews #CoronaVirus #NCDC #Lagos #Bauchi #AkwaIbom #Kaduna #FCT #Edo #Benin A post shared by  The Snappy Magazine (@thesnappymagazine) on Apr 5, 2020 at 2:55am PDT 