…As Osinbajo canvasses more public enlightenment on seriousness of pandemic The Federal Government is making efforts to harmonise all messages sent across the country on the ongoing Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, made this known on Wednesday in Abuja, at the Presidential Taskforce (PTF) Briefing on COVID-19 pandemic. He said that this would enable the government track fake news and misinformation to Nigerians. According to him, media appearances by members of the PTF are taking place to keep Nigerians informed and void of fake news. Meanwhile, he added that more volunteers were also being deployed to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control’s (NCDC) call centres. In his remarks, Dr. Sani Aliyu, National Coordinator COVID-19 PTF, said that only those on essential duties were exempted from the lockdown. Aliyu also said that only shops and stalls selling food and groceries shall be allowed to open from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. He urged all markets and shop owners to make provision for hand sanitisers and hand-washing points. Meanwhile, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, Director-General of NCDC, said that the agency now has an enhanced user-friendly site on the virus. He gave the site is covid19.ncdc.gov.ng. “We already have over a million views on the website with 50 per cent coming from Nigeria. “The virology laboratory of Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki, Ebonyi has been activated for COVID-19 testing. “This brings the number of COVID-19 testing laboratories in the country to seven,” he said. He, however stated that testing laboratories would be opened in Borno, Kano, Sokoto, Rivers, Plateau and Kaduna state. Ihekweazu, however called on Nigerians to reduce their contact with each other. “This way, even cases we have not yet found have less chance of transmitting the virus to others,” he added. Meanwhile, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says there is need for more public enlightenment and sensitisation on the seriousness of the COVID-19 pandemic. The vice president urged governments at all levels to intensify efforts so that more Nigerians would become aware of the compelling and critical dimensions of the situation. Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, in a statement on Wednesday, said the vice president presided over the meeting of the National Economic Council (NEC)’s Special Committee on COVID-19 anchored from the Presidential Villa, Abuja via videoconferencing. The meeting was the second for the committee tasked with coordinating the federal and state governments’ responses to the impact of the pandemic. Osinbajo harped on the importance of the assignment and the urgency required. “The Federal Government is already packaging further resources for a comprehensive economic response to alleviate the challenges of the pandemic, support the States and provide succor to Nigerians in a timely and effective manner. “The newly created Economic Sustainability Committee constituted by the president will also be meeting this week to start its work and respond to the situation appropriately. “The Special Committee of the National Economic Council on COVID-19 is working hard to develop additional measures to alleviate the challenges being faced by Nigerians because of the implications of the global pandemic in the country,’’ he said. Those who joined the vice president in  video-conference are Governors Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti,  Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna,  Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa, Mohammed Abubakar of Jigawa and  Godwin Obaseki of Edo states. Other are Governors David Umahi of Ebonyi, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, and Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi States. The meeting also featured the Finance Minister, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed and the Director-General of the Budget Office, Mr Ben Akabueze among several other top officials. More so, the NEC Committee received the report of its Technical Working Group. The report made recommendations on how federal, state and local governments can bring relief to the people and take other adequate measures in containing and responding to the adverse economic effects of the pandemic.