LEAD .Why Okowa did not mention his name The second case of the COVID-19 in Delta State who was announced to have died on Thursday from the pandemic by the state Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, was a pastor, the Daily Times can authoritatively report. It was gathered that the
deceased was a 57-year-old pastor (name withheld). He was said to be
Warri-based pastor with his church located in popular area in Warri metropolis. But he reportedly died
before the result of his test was released on Thursday evening. According to informed sources,
the deceased died on Wednesday at the isolation centre of the Delta State
University Teaching Hospital (DELSUTH), Oghara. Our sources, who spoke to journalists
in the area on condition of anonymity, not to reveal the name of the church and
that of the pastor, said the state COVID-19 Rapid Response Team had already
commenced contact tracing of the deceased. The deceased before being
moved to Oghara where he subsequently died was hospitalised at a popular
private hospital in Warri where he spent several hours and last preached at his
church two weeks before he was struck down by Coronavirus pandemic. “He died while we were still
expecting result of his test from Irrua Specialist Hospital. He’s a popular
pastor in Warri. He was a 57-year-old pastor. “His health had deteriorated
before he was brought to the isolation centre because of the symptoms he was
exhibiting. “We were all shocked when
the result confirmed he was positive of coronavirus”, one of the sources said. Recall that Governor Ifeanyi
Okowa had confirmed the death of the deceased without revealing details of the
patient, adding that medical ethics will not allow the identity of the deceased
to be made public. Okowa had in a post on his verified Twitter handle on Thursday evening said: “I have just been informed of another case of #COVID19 in Delta State. FG may introduce additional economic stimulus measures as Buhari meets Osinbajo, SGF “The individual in question,
had underlying health issues and had visited Lagos State in the past two weeks. “The patient presented
himself late to one of our hospitals with severe symptoms including difficulty
in breathing and was given the necessary attention by healthcare professionals.
Shortly after the specimen was taken, he passed away. However, his test results
came back positive today.” Competent sources said that
the family members of the late Pastor have 
gone into hiding as the state government intensified efforts to fish
them out for isolation, while fourteen fresh cases that have not been confirmed
currently threatens the relatively peaceful co-existence in the state. But the state Commissioner
for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, while speaking to journalists however
assured that the state government was committed to ensuring safety of Deltans,
adding that the sustainability of sit-at-home order would help to reduce the
scourge at all costs. He said: “We are not
relenting at all and we as a state is committed to ensuring Deltans are safe
and the spread does not affect our people. Everything have been put in place
and we are urging Deltans to observe the sit-at-home order to avoid the scourge
and others at this critical period, and with trust in God, Delta State will come
out good”. Indications are that it might
be difficult for the state government to track down families of those who
tested positive, especially the recent patient who died on Wednesday as some
who allegedly had contact with him, including church members are currently on
the run, giving vent to the fact that the difficult times may outsmart the
state government’s efforts with a view to ensuring that the Coronavirus pandemic
spread is minimised in Delta State. With palpable tension and
fear of the unknown in the state, prayer warriors in the state have commenced
radical prayers in support of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa efforts to prevent further
spread of the pandemic in Delta State.