It was a joyful mood to teachers, pupils and parents of LEA Primary School, Langai community in Gindiri district of Mangu Local Government Area of Plateau state on Saturday, when the Military Task Force, known as ‘Operation Safe Haven, commissioned two blocks of classrooms donated by the force. Speaking at the event, the OPSH Commander, Major General Augustine Agundu said the reason for the intervention was to improve the standard of education at the grassroots, adding that the gesture would improve the standard of education in the area. Agundu said the civil military relationship department arm of the OPSH was established to render humanitarian services to the less-privileged in the society, saying that the gesture covers areas of health, education, feeding, and empowerment which is fully backed by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin. He said: “I am excited to be part of this historic day, because this is basically aimed at encouraging education and discouraging circle of violence in the society. “This project will stimulate children in this community and neighbouring communities to go to school, thereby improving school enrolment. “It will also enable the pupils to learn under a more conducive atmosphere and enable them to engage in more meaningful ventures.” Admonishing the people of Plateau state to shun violence, Agundu said “no amount of peace meetings and conferences” being held day and night would help end crisis if those behind the violence are not determined to drop their arms and follow the part of peace. He addes that politicians, traditional and religious leaders must take a sincere campaign to local, district and ward levels to tell everyone that the crisis must stop, for peace to prevail. Responding, the Plateau state Governor, Simon Lalong said the gesture is laudable, saying that government will not relent in supporting the task-force in achieving its mandate. Gov. Lalong, who was represented by the Commissioner for Special Duties, Irimiiya Werr, said the OPSH has keyed into the vision of the state government in promoting education in rural communities, adding that the state had gotten tremendous support from the task force in various ways.