Butter is an excellent source of Vitamins. One of the many beneficial vitamins we get from butter is Vitamin A, which has a wide range of function for our bodies. Vitamin A is needed to maintain good vision. It also keeps our endocrine system functioning well. Aside from Vitamin A, butter also has other fat-soluble vitamins such as Vitamin D, E and K. A great source for minerals Trace minerals are found in butter such as manganese, chromium, zinc, copper and selenium, which is incidentally, a powerful antioxidant. Butter contains more selenium per gram compared to herring or wheat germ. What’s more, butter is also a great source of iodine. Contains healthy fatty acids You can get your dose of short and medium-chain fatty acids from butter, which are great for supporting your immune system and boosting metabolism. It even has anti-microbial properties- excellent for fighting pathogenic microorganisms that live inside the intestinal tract. Perfect balance of omega-3 and omega-6 fats The arachidonic acid found in butter helps with brain function, skin health and prostaglandin balance. Conjugated Linoleic Acid (CLA) If your butter is sourced from cows that feed on green grass, it can contain high levels of CLA. This is a compound that can help provide protection against different types of cancer, and helps the body store muscle instead of fat. Butter also has Glycospingolipids These are fatty acids that have a specific function to protect the stomach from gastrotestinal infections. An excellent source of good cholesterol Which I’ve posted before about why your body needs cholesterol. Basically, Cholesterol is needed for healthy cellular function. It also plays a part in brain and nervous system development. Lastly, butter contains the Wulzen Factor This is a hormone like substance with many functions. It can prevent stiffness in the joints, as well as arthritis. It is also responsible for ensuring that calcium is deposited in the bones rather than in the joints. Note that the Wulzen factor can only be found in raw butter and cream.