… condemns alleged politically motivated attacks on Sanwo-Olu over palliatives. The Conference of Registered Political Parties (CRPP), in Lagos, has commended the efforts of the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in curtailing the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic in the state. READ ALSO:  Buhari challenges PTF on Covid-19 on contact tracing to avert community transmission The group also condemned the alleged sponsored media criticisms of the governor’s handling of palliative measures for less privileged Lagosians during the current COVID-19 lockdown. Speaking through its chairman, Mr Taiwo Fatai, during a press conference held in Lagos, the group said those who were using the pages of newspapers and online media as “the altar of injustice” against the good governance of Sanwo-Olu were those “who have added no value to the polity of Lagos State and would stop at nothing to pull Lagos State down.” Fatai said Sanwo-Olu deserved commendation for his reaction to COVID-19 pandemic. “We commend Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos State for the steps he is taking to stop the spread of COVID 19 within the state. He is motivating, proficient and consoling reaction to the pandemic in the state is highly commendable. “We are satisfied with his response to the dictates of the times, by reactivating Lagos State profile banking and bio-security research facility at the infections sickness laboratory at Yaba. “Without any doubt, the recent events that have locked down the nations of the world, the monstrous COVID 19 have shown that leadership earned in an unusual trying moments as the COVID 19 represents. CRPP have been vindicated in our assertion that Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu embodies the true yarning and aspiration of the people of Lagos State,” the group said The CRPP also commended the First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs ibironke Sanwo-Olu who, “has continued to give her Husband , Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, the governor of  Lagos State the needed and necessary support that informed the successes achieved within one year in office in the history of Lagos State.” The group further praised  the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, “The professional touch he has brought to bear in fighting COVID 19 Scrounge is commendable. We salute the role played by all the COVID 19 Task force team in Lagos State,” it said. Also getting the commendation of CRPP are the law enforcement agencies who it said conducted themselves professionally to execute the presidential order on lockdown. The CRPP yet commended the National Leader the National Leader of All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, “for his Fatherly support to the people and government of Lagos State at this trying time, of the state.” Speaking further about Tinubu, the CRPP said, “He has really shown that nobody dare query his paranormal intelligence as his leadership skills remains unequalled. We cherish his entrepreneurship value and kind heart.” The CRPP enjoined Lagosians to support the Sanwo-Olu-led administration in the fight against COVID 19 by complying with all instructions.