Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari on Thursday said that the issue of gas supply to the Electricity Generation Companies (GenCos) is critical to the power supply in the country. Speaking at a meeting where the House of Representatives and other stakeholders in the power sector have agreed to set up a joint implementation committee on the proposed two-month free power supply to Nigerian, Kyarisaid the proposal is workable if the issue of who to carry the burden of cost and margins in the supply value chain is settled and agreed on by all the parties. He pointed out that note had to be taken of the actual beneficiaries of the two-month free supply palliative because not every Nigerian falls into the category of the poorest, Mr Kyari pointed out that the existence of the industrial sector should be of concern at the end of the crisis period. MrKyari said though 100 per cent an uninterrupted power supply is impossible because not enough is generated due to the COVID-19 crisis, he assured that gas supply would not be an issue, as 100 per cent supply is guaranteed once the debt issue is addressed. The DisCos assured that they can deliver the mandate as soon as all the details were worked out and agreed on. Similarly, the Minister of Power, Mamman Sale, while speaking on the proposed two-month free power supply to Nigerians, said the Executive arm is ready to contribute its part to the success of the proposal. “We will give all the support as well as technical advice toward the realization of this objective. We are ready whenever our input is needed”, he said. The free electricity is part of the stimulus package aimed at alleviating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on Nigerians. At the meeting on Thursday were the Minister of Power, Mamman Sale; the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), James Momoh; Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET), Marilyn Amobi, as well as representatives of Distribution Companies. Also at the meeting, were the Leader of the House, Alhassan Doguwa; Chief Whip, Mohammed Monguno; Deputy Leader, Peter Akpatason; Deputy Chief Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha; Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, and the Chairman, House Committee on Power, Magaji Da’u-Aliyu, among others.