Lagos State Government has earned a remarkable commendation for its response strategy deployed to curtail the spread of the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and
chairman of Presidential Taskforce for the Control of the Coronavirus, Mr. Boss
Mustapha, hailed Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his resoluteness in driving
the efforts towards flattening the curve of COVID-19 outbreak in the nation. He said the roles being played by Lagos to curtail the
coronavirus outbreak had raised the hope for other states in winning the fight
against the ravaging pandemic. Mustapha spoke when he led members of the Task Force on
working visits to major isolation facilities in Lagos on Tuesday. The 12-member
team were personally received by Governor Sanwo-Olu at its first port of call,
which was the 110-bed Isolation Facility in Onikan. The Task Force members, in company of Sanwo-Olu and top
officials of the State Government, thereafter moved to other isolation centres
across Lagos for inspection. With over 80 active COVID-19 cases being managed, Lagos
remains the highest burdened State of the pandemic. This prompted the Federal
Government to integrate the State into the national single response command led
by the Presidential Taskforce. Addressing reporters after the inspection, Mustapha said
the Presidential Task Force was satisfied with the comfortability at the
facilities and medical equipment deployed to manage the cases of the infectious
disease. Describing the centres as “world-class”, the SGF said the
Task Force was delighted by the work done by the Lagos Government, pointing out
that the facilities had been fully equipped and prepared to manage COVID-19
patients in the case of escalation. He said: “So far, Lagos State has been doing a great job.
From what we observed during the inspection of various isolation centres, the
State has put up world-class facilities in the management of those that are
infected with COVID-19. We are satisfied with the kind of care and personnel
deployed; it shows that we are on course in winning the battle. “One thing Nigerians must know is that, we are very clear
in the national strategy we have deployed against the coronavirus in terms of
containment. Also, to try as much as possible to reduce the spread and speed up
tracking of those that have been in contact with cases, so that we will be able
to minimise the incident of community transmission. We are doing very well in implementation
of the strategy.” Mustapha urged Lagosians to be patient while the State
remained under lockdown, urging them to support the combined effort of the
State and the Federal Government towards breaking the cycle of the transmission
of the virus. The SGF said the success of the Federal Government in
fully curtailing the ravaging pandemic was hinged on the capability of the
Lagos Government in its response to stop the spread of the pandemic in the
State. “We cannot afford to leave Lagos to deal with the current situation alone. If we can get it right in Lagos, I believe we can stop the virus in other parts of the federation,” Mustapha said. The SGF said the ongoing lockdown had started to yield
positive outcome, stressing that the response that was triggered by the central
government was achieving the desired objectives. Mustapha said the burden rate of the virus in Lagos, Ogun
State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) made the Federal Government to
release 6,800 metric tons of the 70,000 metric tons of grains taken from the
national reserve to support the vulnerable people in the three states under
lockdown. Within the next couple days, the SGF said distribution of
the materials would commence. Responding to enquiry on whether there would be extension
of the lockdown, Mustapha said: “At the end of the first 14 days, we will do
evaluations and review the objectives we have set. The extension of lockdown
will be based on the progress we achieve in the first 14 days. Whatever the
decision we take afterwards, it will be in the best interest of the people.” In his remark, Governor Sanwo-Olu praised President Muhammadu Buhari for rising to the occasion of the national emergency by setting up a “high powered” multi-sectoral Taskforce on COVID-19 mandated to implement all measures to ensure the pandemic is brought under control. Breaking: Covid-19: FCT discharges of 7 patients The Governor said he, in the course of the inspection,
shared some of the State’s activities that had yielded positive results and
other measures being put in place to raise the level of preparedness of the
State Government in case of exponential transmission. He said: “We have gone round and assess some of our
isolation facilities. We have also explained our other level of preparedness to
the Presidential Taskforce team and they are happy with what they have seen. We
can do more, even at level of where we are at the moment. Today’s efforts are
to position our country and raise our capability to deal with future
emergencies.” Sanwo-Olu said the isolation facilities were built in a
way to give patients a high level of comfort while being treated. He added that
some of the facilities were equipped with CCTV communication system that will
make it possible for relatives of patients to communicate with them during
isolation. Minister for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said he was
impressed by the level of Lagos Government’s preparedness, noting: “Lagos is
very well prepared and we are sending medical personnel to this State learn few
things they are doing well.” Other quarantine facilities visited by the Governor and
the Taskforce members included the 60-bed isolation centre at the Lagos
University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) in Idi Araba, 120-bed centre at Infectious
Disease Hospital (IDH) in Yaba and 200-bed isolation facility built at Gbagada
General Hospital in Gbagada. The Government is raising the capacity of the isolation facility, with additional 60-bed facility currently being built at LUTH and other areas across Lagos.