CRC Credit Bureau has provided a platform to make lending easier for financial institutions who have automated their lending applications via an Application Program Interface (API). CRC on Wednesday explained that with its
API, lenders and other credit granters can continue to grant loans and postpaid
services via an automated process by accessing CRC’s robust database of over
33Million credit profiles, as one of the criteria needed for decision making. The credit bureau firm noted that with
this development will enable swift informed lending decisions by obtaining quick
access to prospective and repeat borrowers credit information in seconds. According
 to CRC, with the current restriction of movement instated by the 
Government of Nigeria, prospective borrowers are no longer able to 
physically
visit their Commercial Banks, Micro-finance Banks or other lending 
institutions
to apply for loans to take care of their personal needs or finance their
businesses. “This has made the online mediums or Electronic-Channels,
popularly known as E-Channels, the most favourable method of initiating a credit
requests and other banking transactions e.g. mobile apps, internet banking,
USSD codes etc. “With CRC Credit Bureau’s API Solutions,
lenders can still carry out their credit transactions efficiently and
effectively during and post COVID-19”, it explained. Commenting, the Managing Director/CEO of
CRC Credit Bureau Limited, Mr. ‘Tunde Popoola, during such crisis and economic
upheaval, what usually happens is that Lenders become more risk-averse but with
the CRC API Solution, lenders can continue to grant loans to prospective
borrowers without lending in the dark. Borrowers can have continued access to
finance for various purposes, and  still
enjoy a good standard of living. Lenders can have access to CRC’s API
solution in 3 easy steps: Request for the API Integration Kit, Test and go
live. Further information can be obtained by sending CRC Credit Bureau an email
to contactus@crccreditbureau.com.