…says sit at home, best way to curb spread of COVID-19 The Lagos State House of Assembly has pleaded with Lagosians to bear little more the hardship that trailed the COVID-19 battle, stating that it is necessary to strictly adhere to the restriction order imposed by the government, so as to stem the spread of the virus in no distant time. A Joint committee of the House on Health and Information
which made a visit to four topical Coronavirus treatment and Isolation centres,
in the state for a sightseeing of the facilities and to ascertain how adequate
the health care services provided there are, noted that all over the globe the
economy is nose diving and people need now more than ever to be their brother’s
keeper by extending a helping hand to the vulnerable. The committee visited the Mainland Infectious Disease
Hospital (IDH) Yaba, Isolation Centre at Onikan Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Eti Osa
Isolation Centre at LANDMARK Victoria Island and the Cardiac and Renal Centre
General Hospital, Gbagada, which has also been drafted for prompt medical care
as the virus bites harder in the state, given the circulated statistics by the
Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). In their observation during the tour around the facilities, the
committee noticed a proactive response to the pandemic as basic equipments were
afforded. Aside slight inadequacies sighted at the IDH with respect to
provision of Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) for frontline healthcare
givers; the Nurses and hygienists as well as testing kits, which they promise
to make recommendations for needed attention. According the team led by Hon. Hakeem Sokunle, Chairman,
House Committee on Health Services and accompanied by Hon. Tunde Braimoh,
Chairman, House Committee on Information, Security and Strategy, government is
living no stone unturned to mitigate the further spread of the virus, but
really needs the cooperation of the people. Also on the team were Hon.Temitope Adewale, Chairman, House
Committee on Transportation and Hon. Desmond Elliott, Chairman, House Committee
on Environment. Sokunle harped on the aptness of the government’s insistence
on sit at home order as the best way to curb the spread of the virus, weighing
the grave consequences of getting infected on an individual. The lawmaker commended the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide
Sanwo-Olu for the lockdown, noting that it will if strictly adhered to aid
quick detection and immediate medical attention. “Let us commend the government giving out that
executive order, I must say this, having it slow does not mean that we will
achieve 100 percent success and having it fast has nothing to do with success. “The good thing about the place is if there is a lockdown,
it will confine everybody in his or her room or places of abode and that would
enable us if there is any outbreak to come down to your residence and pick you
up for treatment. “So the lockdown will only assist us to be able to identify all the people affected by the Coronavirus.” COVID-19: 115 inmates regain freedom from correctional centres in Nasarawa Sokunle advocated this as the best way to curb the further
spread of the virus. “The best way to curb the spread is absolute lockdown,
I understand it is not easy but sometimes we should be able to consider the
effect of COVID, because if you witness the effect of the virus on human being
it is very bad. “You can imagine shortened breathing, coughing and all the
rest, it will get to a time that the respiratory organ oozes blood. “So if government said we should lockdown, we should be
able to abide by it and lockdown,” Sokunle reiterates,” Sokunle said. Speaking on the barrage of complaints that trailed the
palliatives distribution around the state, Hon Tunde Braimoh appealed to
Lagosians to persevere a lot more, as the situation demands drastic actions
being a sudden one for which preparation was made earlier. The lawmaker noted the disruptive manner by which the
pandemic took on the world, citing the fact that the people needs to be
encouraged by the efforts of well meaning 
Nigerians, who went out of their ways to bring succour to vulnerable
persons at this time of despair and fear. “The House of Assembly has observed being the closest
to the people that more than average of the complaints received across the
state bothers on palliatives and that was why in the committee set up by the
Rt. Honourable Speaker, Dr. Mudashiru Obasa to meet with the state governor, His
Excellency, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, led by the Deputy Speaker in company of
eight other members who had a very useful meeting with the governor and were
able to put this to the fore. “That there were so much complaints about the adequacy
or even availability of the palliatives, in some areas it varies, in some
places it was not adequate, in some others they have yet gotten at all and the
Governor actually assured the committee of the whole House of Assembly that
nobody expected this problems and we should give kudos to government for
responding. “Most of the places where responses are faster and more
adequate is because they have the data already that they’ve been using to do
social support or social intervention to their people all along. “We don’t have any verifiable data base here and so you
have to be sure that not just some people are getting many while some of them
none. “So, the governor is that concerned and he has said
going by the received reports from us and other sources, that he is working on
a verifiable data base to make palliatives available to people in no distant
future. “It could be today or tomorrow one can’t tell, but it
will be as soon as possible. “I want to say that contrary to the erroneous or
mischievous belief of some people that members of the Assembly have been given
palliatives to share to them, that is not so. “None of us has collected any kobo, we won’t even
collect it, we won’t even be given anyway, because it is not our own duty. We
don’t touch money, our own duty is to appropriate money to the executive arm of
government, we don’t go to the arena or field and do that ourselves. “But out of our own altruistic and patriotic zeal
because we know that talk about governance or anything you have to be cognizant
of your own immediate environment the system that we operate in Nigeria is one
that requires sympathy and empathy and you must be seen at all times to
identify with yearnings, objectives and aspirations of our people. “When your people are in distress they don’t understand your
check and balance on abuse of power. “So you have to come out as somebody who was given the
mandate, love and aspirations of the people and their confidence, you must
justify those things at all times. “That is why each and every member, like Mr Speaker
gives daily breakfast to people, 30,000 loaves of bread and more daily, other
members myself inclusive have also done a lot of cash transfers as well giving
out bags of rice, garri, beans and lots more to our constituents to alleviate
the hardship posed by the lockdown to halt the spread of COVID-19. “I want to appeal to our people, we understand quite
clearly the import of the time are very telling on our people, we know of
people who work and earn their living on a daily basis when they don’t work in
a day it is difficult for them to adequately fend for themselves. “Nigerian system is largely informal, maybe about ten
percent of the population is employed by the government and maybe another 20
percent by the private sector, the rest are earning their living through small
or medium scale enterprises most of which are owned by sole proprietors, like
motorbike operators, plumber, hairdressers and many people who are into petty
trading are having it rough and we understand that. “We want to beg our people to know that is one problem
on one side which bothers on welfare of the other problem on the other side is
the COVID-19 which has to do with survivorship, about life and death, if
somebody is alive that is when he can think about welfare, once dead you care
less and death is a supreme sacrifice, we want to appeal to our people not to
die. “There is still hope for Nigeria, we want to appeal to all
of us to forebear and be introspective in our reactions to the dictates of this
time. “Of course it is frustrating, annoying and makes one
angry as a result of hunger, that is natural, but we want our people to bear it
in mind that there is still a light at the end of the tunnel and there is still
hope,” Said Braimoh. Earlier, Dr. Nifemi Oloniniyo, the Medical officer at the
IDH, who held forte for the Managing Director, Dr. Abimbola Bowale while conducting
the committee round the facility noted that it has 103 bed spaces for patients
along with two Isolation Centres around it. Dr James Okediran who was also on ground at the IDH calls
for more equipment because the numbers are increasing by the day. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Olusegun
Ogboye was quick to call the attention of Lagosians to the need for them not to
be secretive, when having related symptoms as early detection and proper
treatment will bring needed respite. “We are in the community spread phase now, yes, but we
are finding more cases and we are taking them out of the community and I think
if we can continue to do that over the next few weeks or so, we will be making
major inroads into winning this COVID-19 war.” He added that, that the NCDC records no added positive case
for Lagos yesterday is not a sign that all is well, yet. “I wouldn’t call that a success, because we know they
are out there, so we are going out and collecting samples, quite a few of which
are still in the labs being tested now and I am almost certain that we will
have some positive results out of this ones. “So this is not the time to be feeling that we are having a
success if for one day we don’t have a positive result. “Samples were being taken for screening from individuals
with symptoms, known history of contact with infected persons and of the virus
to ascertain possibilities of their being infected and their status unraveled
at the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC). “Private bodies are however partnering the state for optimum
delivery on tackling the pandemic, the likes of Guaranty Trust Bank which
really partnered the state government in the provision of the Onikan Isolation
Centre with 100 bed space capacity and 10 Intensive Care Units. “A body, Young President Organisation YPO led by the
steering committee Chairman, Dr. Richard Ajayi, in partnership with the state
government also constructed another Isolation centre in two weeks at Eti Osa,
with adequate equipments and is expected to be operational soon.” Dr. Abiola Fasina the Emergency Healthcare Consultant at the
Eti Osa Isolation Centre noted that the facility offers a 90 bed capacity and
10 bed ICU. At Cardiac and Renal Centre General Hospital Gbagada, some
partitioning and rehabilitation works were done to create space for treatment
of COVID-19 patients, while the core values of the entity subsists, it has 100
beds capacity and 20 ICU. The Director, Project Ministry of Health, Dr. Abiodun
Oduwole noted that the basic facilities within the centre are well protected in
cordoned areas, different from where the COVID-19 pandemic will be treated, and
that the centre reverts back to original use after the COVID-19 battle is won.