Sen. Abdulfatai Buhari (APC- Oyo North) and Rep. Segun Odebunmi (APC- Ogo Oluwa/Surulere) have expressed optimism that the country would overcome the coronavirus pandemic. The duo said this in separate Easter messages that was made available to Dailytimes on Sunday in Ibadan. Buhari, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport, said that with prayers, sacrifices and strict compliance with government’s orders as well as preventive measures, the virus would be contained. “We are indeed in a trying moment, but I am optimistic that with collective commitment, sacrifice and by turning to God through prayers, we shall overcome the trial and emerge stronger,”he said. Ebonyi threatens to shut markets over lockdown non-compliance He said that the significance of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ was important given what the world was currently undergoing. Buhari said that people should be more fervent in prayers to save the world. “As you celebrate the Easter, I call on you to be mindful and observe the COVID-19 protocols of social distancing, hand sanitising and other preventive measures. “Although there is no recorded case of coronavirus in the senatorial district, the APC- led Federal Government has taken necessary steps for the containment of the dreaded global pandemic and mitigation of its impact,’’ he said. The senator called on the faithful to pray for continuous peace and stability of the nation. “The season provided opportunity for unity of purpose, reinforcement of brotherhood bond, service to God and humanity. “I also call on you to continue to pray fervently against the COVID-19 pandemic that is threatening humanity and its means of livelihood,” he said. Odebunmi, on his part, expressed optimism that the nation would soon overcome the pandemic ravaging the world. The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Information and National Orientation, called for love, sacrifices and prayers for the growth of Nigeria. “Easter marks the epitome of God’s unconditional love for humanity as God himself paid the ultimate price to save humanity,” he said. Odebunmi called on Christians to emulate the love of Christ by offering themselves for service to God and humanity, including those they call their enemies. “At a time like this when the entire world is going through difficulties occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, all we need is prayers and total compliance to the directives as well as preventive measures put in place by the government. “As the lord Jesus Christ rose and overpowered death, so shall Nigeria win the war against COVID-19 pandemic and other challenges,” he said. The lawmaker pledged continued commitment to serving his constituents whom he said deserved the best from him. “My constituents deserve the best and I will not relent in my efforts to give them the best through adequate representation at the National Assembly as well as facilitation of projects that will enhance their development. “Before COVID 19 pandemic, I have been assisting my people in one way or the other and during this trying time we have been able to provide relief package as a form of palliative measures.