 The United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority ( NCAA) Licensed Flight Dispatcher and Ground Instructor, Mrs Victoria Jumoke Adegbe has prescribed recovery for indigenous carriers as the global aviation navigates it way out of COVID -19. Specifically,
she canvassed conversion of passenger aircraft into cargo operations. Such aircraft,
she said could optimize opportunities available for freight of medical supplies
, agricultural supplies and other essential cargo. The Chief
Executive Officer of Insel Networks Limited, an aviation consulting firm urged
government to consider direct financial support to indigenous carriers to
compensate for reduced revenues and liquidity attributable to travel
restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19. She said while
many domestic carriers were hanging be the thread prior to COVID -19 with large
percentage of their earnings gulped by expenditure on aviation fuel, aircraft
maintenance, aircraft lease payments, aeronautical charges, personnel
emoluments and sundry charges continued to lockdown occasioned by Corona Virus
has exacerbated the woes of indigenous airlines. Adegbe said many
Nigerian carriers were showing suicidal symptoms as some of them could barely
meet their obligation amid declaration by particular carriers that it would
not pay its workers salaries during the period of the lockdown. Citing reports
from International Air Transport Association (IATA), she said Nigerian carriers
have so far lost over $760 million warranting calls for direct financial
support to passenger and cargo carriers to compensate for reduced revenues and
liquidity attributable to travel restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19. She said :” “Loans, loan guarantees
and support for the corporate bond market by governments or central bank could
come in handy at this challenging time. “Also
rebates on payroll taxes paid to date in 2020 and/or an extension of the payment
terms for the rest of 2020, along with a temporary waiver of ticket taxes and other
Government-imposed levies. So here are my suggestions to help you stay afloat
as an airline operator. “Convert
some of your passenger aircraft for cargo operations. “You could
transport medical supplies, agricultural products and other forms of freight. “The cost
of freight forwarding has more than tripled since COVID so you might want to
take advantage of that. “A number
of international airlines such as American Airlines, Korean Air and Cathay
Pacific has already started using some of their passenger aircraft for cargo. “More than
ever before, your Flight Dispatchers can actually come to your rescue. They
work in your Operations Control. They’re trained to help you. They know how to
analyse scenarios, increase profitability and efficiency in the airlines
without jeopardising safety. “If you do
consider cargo operations, your Flight Dispatchers would work with your
engineers to ascertain aircraft weight limitations and other parameters.  You might want to request that the government
considers relieving you of certain airline charges, levies and taxes or better
still loan you the funds to help you stay afloat. “While
everyone is making serious adjustments to their lifestyle, I also call on the
government to critically look into burning the plastic trays used at airport
security screening points. This will definitely help curb the rate of spread of
the virus during flights.”