…Warns Nigerians against uncertified Covid-19 vaccine As the Coronavirus cases continue to spread across Nigeria, the Federal Government has said that it will extend emergency response to Kano, Osun, Oyo and Edo states. This is coming few days after Kano recorded 23 COVID-19 cases, Osun 20, Oyo 16 and Edo 15 cases as at Monday, 11:10pm. Speaking during the daily briefing of Presidential Task Force (PTF) on Covid-19 on Tuesday, the PTF National Coordinator, Dr. Sani Aliyu, said that the Federal Government is closely monitoring the four states to ensure that more cases are discovered and increasing community transmission is curtailed. According to Dr. Aliyu, the PTF is in talks with the states government, particularly with Kano, considering the increasing number of cases in the state. He disclosed that the PTF is increasing the number of tests, in a bid to trace more possible cases. “We do note the concern about increased reporting of cases. We are closely monitoring Kano, Osun, Oyo and Edo states. We note the particular concern with Kano and we have engaged closely with the state government. “With regards to state engagement, we continue to engage collaboratively with state governments on the pandemic response. “The task force will continue to provide necessary assistance to states to ensure adequate sensitisation”, he said. While re-emphasising the need for Nigerians to comply with the lockdown policy particularly for those in Lagos, Ogun and the FCT, Dr. Aliyu stressed the need for the use of face masks as an additional precautionary measure. “We continue to urge you to use face masks as an optional addition to the routine measures of physical distancing, avoiding mass gatherings and respiratory hygiene. “In line with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) face mask policy, I will advise Nigerians to make do-it-yourself (DIY) face masks; not only are they cheaper but they are also more colourful. “We do recognise the Nigerian creative and enterprising spirit already at work with so many people already making use of local fabrics. We will like to urge you to continue to adapt your procedures for improvised mask usage and maintenance based on the NCDC guidelines”, he added. Earlier, Minister of State for Health, Dr. Adeleke Mamora, disclosed that the task force has intensified efforts in risk communication at grassroots level. He emphasised the need to avoid mass gatherings without protection. “The use of face masks or face barrier that covers your mouth and nose has been scientifically proven to reduce spread of respiratory infection. “Please, always wash, iron and ensure the improvised cloth mask is not dirty. “I urge all Nigerians to make this sacrifice for all of us and for our loved ones. Together, we shall stop the spread of the virus”. Meanwhile, the Federal Government on Tuesday warned Nigerians against patronising uncertified Coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine, yellow in colour, being hawked in Kano. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, gave the warning at a media briefing of the Presidential Task Force on the Control of Covid-19. “By the way, you must know that the vaccine being hawked in Kano which is called Covid-19 vaccine is yellow in colour. “It is not certify by anybody, please do not patronise the hawkers,” he said. The minister who was giving update on public enlightenment and advocacy on covid-19 said a respected opinion poll, the NOI Polls, has shown that 99 per cent of Nigerians are aware of COVID-19. He disclosed that his ministry and its agencies had ramped up their public enlightenment and advocacy campaign to continue to reach Nigerians with information on how they can protect themselves and avoid contracting the disease. “This is necessary because, in the absence of vaccine or drugs, Non Pharmaceutical Intervention (NPI) remains the most effective way to contain the spread of the disease and protect Nigerians. “The campaign has, therefore, continued to focus on the need for the populace to adhere strictly to social distancing and mass gathering restrictions, wear face mask and ensure good personal hygiene. “The Ministry has now rolled out a new set of TVCs and radio jingles focusing on the NPI interventions. “The TVCs and the jingles, in English, Pidgin, Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba, have started playing on the NTA and the FRCN,” he said. Mohammed said the ministry was in the process of rolling them out on state and private radio and television stations across the country. He particularly commended the federal government information dissemination agencies,  NTA, FRCN, NAN and VON for engaging in the public enlightenment and advocacy campaign. “These agencies have used their own resources to produce TVCs and jingles, which they have continued to air and disseminate, in addition to devoting a large chunk of their programmes and time to the campaign. “I am also happy to announce that, contrary to the belief in certain quarters, the National Orientation Agency (NOA), inspite of lacking adequate resources, has shown creativity in its bid to take the campaign to Nigerians. “The agency has leveraged its relationship with NGOs and the private sector to produce Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials which are now being disseminated to Nigerians in English, Pidgin and some of the major indigenous languages,” he said. Mohammed added that the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) had taken steps to prevent misinformation via the broadcast stations by warning them to adhere strictly to the professional ethics of balance and fairness in reporting COVID-19. He said the commission particular warned the stations against bringing on their programmes ‘panellists’ with agenda to make reckless statements and insinuations. The minister reiterated that failure to adhere strictly to the provisions of the Broadcasting Code would attract sanctions, as stipulated by the Code.