AS part of his contribution to cushion the effects of the lock down on the people of his Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Area, the Executive Chairman of the council, Dr. Kemi Surakat, yesterday, Thursday rolled out the second batch of of the council’s palliative, in the form of Stimulus food packages  to the people of Ibeju-Lekki Local council. The Second Food Relief Packages which consist of 1000 Cartons of Noodles and 100 Bags rice were distributed to the people. It will be recalled that the council had during the first batch of the programme distributed 200 bags of Rice and 50 bags of Garri. The distribution for the first batch cut across the vulnerable, Youths, traditional rulers, religious leaders, including membership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), League of Imams and Alfas and other members of the public who were seriously in need of the packages. COVID-19: Udom extends lockdown, inaugurates mobile court for defaulters in A’Ibom Similarly, the second batch of the food relief packages were given to Apex leaders, Akodo and Elemoro Police Stations, Staffs and Management  of Ibeju Lekki Local Government, Security Agencies in the local government, including members of the Department of State Services (DSS) , Federal Road Safety Corps, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, political office holders in Ibeju Lekki Local Government, among others. The Chairman of the council, Hon. Surakat, said the action was in appreciation of the people  of Ibeju Lekki council for obeying  the government’s stay at home order and in supporting the government  in stopping the spread of the coronavirus (COVID 19) pandemic. The Vice Chairman of the council, Hon. Abdul Jelil Odofin, the Leader of the Council, Hon. Mubarak  Higara, Chief of Staff to the Chairman, Hon. Saheed Shafari, Supervisors, Management Staff led by Council Manager, Mr. Kunle Whenu, S.A. on Information, S.A. on Chieftaincy, S.A. on Teachers Matters   among others were among those in attendance  at the Igando Oloja, venue of for the distribution,