The Federal Government on Friday cautioned religious leaders against holding Easter services and Friday Jumat in defiance of the stay-at-home order to contain the spread of deadly Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the
Minister of Information and Culture and a member of the Presidential Task Force
for the Control of Coronavirus gave the warning on Nigeria Television Authority
(NTA)’s programme, “Good Morning Nigeria”. The Minister, who was giving
update on the activities of the Task Force, decried the situation where some
section of Nigerians are disobeying the lockdown directives by the government
to contain the disease. “What we have today is that
some people are not obeying the directive and they are still congregating. ‘I hear some religious
leaders are saying that nobody can prevent them from conducting their Jumat and
Easter Service. “You therefore begin to
wonder if they are true Christians or true Muslims. The Minister continued: “If
they are true Christians, where do they take their compass from; “Is it from the Queen who is
the head of the Anglican Church or the Pope who is the head of the Catholic
Church because we know their positions on the Coronavirus? “People cannot be more
Catholic than the Pope and be more Muslim than Prophet Muhammed. “If Saudi Arabia can stop
Umrah which annually attracts about seven million religious tourists and
adherents and say you don’t have to come for prayers, who are they to call for
congregation? “Even the Pope has to give
his homily through television and online, then what is our problem?, ” he said. The Minister said that the
government understood that issues of religion are very sensitive and the
government will continue to engage religious leaders. He recalled that as parts of
the engagement, Mr. Boss Mustapha, the Chairman of the Task Force and the
Secretary to the Government of the Federation met with the Catholic Archbishop
of Abuja, His Grace, Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama Mohammed said they were
pleasantly surprised at the level of cooperation they received from clergy “He led a team of Bishops and they offered us 60 properties of their own all over Nigeria which if need be should be used as Covid 19 treatment centres. Reps demand end to inhuman treatment of Nigerians in China “He emphasised that it is
not about religion or politics but about humanity and survival. “We thank Archbishop Kaigama
for this,” he said. The Minister said that in
contrast, some religious leaders are not leading their faithfuls aright. He also berated some set of
people who are saying that the disease only existed with the elites and they
are immuned because they have not travelled abroad. “We should realise that
after closing our borders, we are transiting into more dangerous stage of the
disease which is community transmission. “All it needs is for one
person to infect 10 people and each of the 10 people will infect another10 each
and by the end of the day we will be recording tens of thousand of infected
people. ‘Where are the facilities to
treat them, even the most developed health care system in the world are
collapsing. “In Spain today, they said
the cemetery have come under severe pressure because they have to bury many
people. ‘You can imagine what will
happen to Nigeria if all of a sudden we have 5000 cases, that will be a
disaster,” he said. The Minister therefore
admonished the religious leaders to encourage their faithfuls to comply with
the stay at home, social distancing and basic hygiene directives.