 The chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Adedeji Doherty has called on all Nigerians to seize the opportunity of the Easter period to reflect on the situation of the country and be ready to make sacrifices for her unity and progress. READ ALSO:  Enugu imposes time limit on commercial tricycle operations Doherty in his Easter message released by one his media aides, Prince Rasak Olawale Fadipe, which was made available to newsmen at the weekend, felicitated with Christians across the country for the joy of Easter while praying that the resurrection power of Jesus Christ bring solution to the pandemic presently ravaging the world. “I wish you all happy Easter celebration, my Christian brothers and sisters, as we celebrate Easter in commemoration of the resurrection of our Lord, Jesus Christ. “For Christians all over the world, the major lessons of Easter, which we celebrate this year in the midst of the global pandemic #Covid-19 in our nation and all over the world, are to be found in the Messiah’s Divine love and glorious self-sacrifice for the redemption of mankind. “This year’s celebration of Easter is taking place at a very critical period of time, during which we must all speak in one voice in tackling the Coronavirus pandemic and to make sacrifices for greater unity, peace, political stability and progress in our beloved country.” He stated further that, “we must therefore seize the opportunity of the Easter period to reflect deeply on what more we need to do as a people, to ensure that all the health tips given to us by the NCDC in reducing the spread of Coronavirus are adhered to and that our beloved country, Nigeria continues to move towards a better future for all of its citizens. “To the glory and pride of our fatherland, our collective actions since the first case of #Covid-19 was discovered in Lagos have yield good results. “By the grace of God, very soon our beloved nation, Nigeria will be Coronavirus free despite all challenges. “Let us all pray this Easter, that God Almighty who has brought us this far grant our Nigerian medical personnel the needed knowledge and wisdom to tackle the Coronavirus Pandemic, and continue to bless our nation with good leaders, towards the fulfillment of our collective vision of a truly united, strong and prosperous nation.” He also recognized the heroes of the battle against CONVID-19, the medical team, saying, “This message won’t be complete without a special mention of our heroes..the medical team who are fighting day and night to keep us alive. May almighty reward you abundantly.”