The Adamawa state Police Command has warned members of various transport unions in the state against violating the restriction order. Mr. Audu Madaki, the state police commissioner, gave the warning in a statement signed by the command’s spokesperson, Sulaiman Nguroje, on Thursday in Yola. Madaki warned of tough consequences for members of the organised transport sector who were breaching the existing lockdown order in the state. He said the violation of the restriction of movement has proven to be counter-productive and undermining government’s efforts in curbing the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic. ”The warning is sequel to intelligence reports reaching the command that road transport workers, especially inter-state operators, town service drivers and tricycle operators have continued to defy the lockdown order and embark on night journeys and carrying much passengers. ”Consequently, the command has directed assistant commissioners of police and divisional police officers to ensure full implementation of the restriction order. ”Especially, as it relates to night travel without being unmindful of categories of exempted persons and the fundamental human rights of citizens,” Madaki said. He noted that the lockdown at border areas was for 24 hours daily and that night hours are not excluded. He called on the leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) and the Public Transport Owners of Nigeria Association, among others, to warn their members and strictly adhere to the restriction order. According to him, violators of the restriction will be made to face the full wrath of the law. Madaki however, appreciated the understanding and cooperation given by the people of the state and assured of the command’s readiness to protect lives and properties of the citizens. The commissioner enjoined the people to take advantage of the command’s emergency GSM numbers for useful information and reporting of incidents.