Turkey based Nigerian super model, Omotolani Victoria Enwereji popularly known as Tolani enwereji, has said one of the secrets of becoming a successful super model, is confidence and having a good charisma, the pretty chocolate beauty said this while encouraging young Nigerians who might wants to build up a career in modeling.In her words, good look or good body is not enough, to guarantee your success in the industry. xI want them to know this, the secret to modeling is not just about your looks or body, it is your confidence, charisma that attracts the big fish, be positive and energetic. Stay true to yourself and career, don’t let anyone make you feel less of yourself, be proud of your skin color and you’ll get to the top. Slow and steady we are all going to get there”. The Abia state born also speaks on what she thinks about the Nigerian modeling industry and top super model that inspires her, “I think Nigerian modeling industry is a broad fashion continent underestimated, I mean there are so many international record breaking models from Nigeria, but we are yet to acknowledge that professionally. Within the next few years, the Nigeria modeling industry will be recognized globally and a force for reckon with as long as we have people ready to put in the work, as for those that inspires me, I will say, Gigi and Bella hadid, leomie Anderson, Adut akech” she noted. On her relationship status and what would love to change about herself, she said, “I am definitely Single and not searching. I want to focus more on myself and my career. I wanna be independent before taking letting a partner into my life. “I do not know, I’m quite content with myself and I believe I am a work in progress. Besides, why would anyone want to change something about themselves? she questioned. Born in the 1990s, Tolani started her modeling career by participating in a beauty pagent where she emerged the Miss Independence for Peace Nigeria. Having started her career locally, the ex beauty queen took a bold step, by taking her brand to the global level. She’s worked with various renowned fashion brands and graced the runway with her peers at Mercedes Benz fashion week Istanbul, Mercedes Benz fashion week Tbilisi, Splash fashion, Arab fashion week, Accra fashion week and so on. She has also worked with world famous brands – Fenty beauty, Ysl beauty, Splash, Rami Kadi, Amato and featured in several Vogue magazines in France, Germany, Mexico and Spain. The 22-year-old fashion model who is now based in Turkey and works with one of the top modeling agencies in the country, decided to give back to the society that supported her from the start by donating part of her proceeds to various Charity homes in Nigeria, she also launched her own clothing line “The Brand Definition”, she is also into Agriculture where she provides food items to the less privileged Nigerians.