Residents in some satellite town in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT  are lamenting over  poor Electricity supply. This is coming two days after the federal government ordered a a complete lock down  of the FCT, Lagos and Ogun states as part of measures to stop the spread of COVID-19, which rose to 111 on Sunday. Speaking with our correspondent, a resident of Karu who simply identified herself as Mary said that the light has not been steady in the area for the past two days. She said, ” Every Nigerian is a survivor. The vegetables I bought yesterday has already gone bad. “It is so frustrating after stocking your house with perishable items, there will be no light to preserve them”. On his part, Mr. Joseph Victor, a  resident of chika, a satellite town along the airport road said, ” I don’t know what I was thinking believing I could hustle in this country. ” Honestly, the system is design just to work against you. No matter how hard you try, the system just fine a way to perpetually frustrate your efforts and damage you in some way you don’t even know”. Asked if she would prefer to go out there and contract Coronavirus than managing the situation at home without light, Ms Bola Agbolahan said, what a question. How do you want me to survive this heat? Is the heat alone not worst than Coronavirus? ” What is wrong is wrong.  They were asking us to stock our houses with food. I should buy rice and eat with water and salt? ” I can’t imagine how frustrated people will be when their food get bad just because of light issues. Daily Times recalls that  President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday ordered the “cessation of all movements” for two weeks in the largest city Lagos and capital Abuja to stop the spread of coronavirus. “All citizens in these areas are to stay in their homes” starting from  Monday, Buhari announced in a televised address to the nation. “Travel to or from other states should be postponed. All businesses and offices within these locations should be fully closed during this period.” Buhari said the restrictions — which also cover Ogun state neighbouring Lagos — do not apply to hospitals, food shops or petrol stations. “Although these establishments are exempted, access will be restricted and monitored,” he added.