The Magistrate of the Ogba Magistrate Court  1 in Lagos, Yewande Aje-Afuwa, has sentenced Funke Akindele and husband to pay fine of N100, 000, involve in community service for 14 days and be kept in isolation in place to be determined by the state government for violating the social distancing directive of the Lagos State government. The Nollywood Actress, Funke Akindele-Bello and her husband, AbdulRasheed Bello pleaded guilty to the offence when arraigned before the court on Monday. It would be recalled that the two accused persons held a party at their residents with over twenty persons in attendance contrary to the social distancing directives made in pursuant to Regulation  8(1)(a) and (b) & 17(1)(i) of the Lagos State Infectious Disease (Emergency Prevention) Regulations 2020 and therefore committed an offence under Section 58 of the Public Health Law Cap P16 Vol. 9, Laws of Lagos State 2015. The suspects were arrested by operatives of Lagos State Police Command following a viral video showing a large number of persons mainly in the entertainment industry at the Amen Estate, along Ajah, Ibeju-Lekki axis, Lagos celebrating a birthday party organised by Funke Akindele Bello and her husband Abdul Rasheed Bello. tThe Defence Counsel, Barr. Abayomi Alagbada pleaded for leniency on the grounds that the couple were first time offenders.. Abayomi noted that they are respectable members of society and have two young children. Meanwhile, the Prosecutor, Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo,SAN, asked the court to sentence the defendants accordingly, having pleaded guilty to the charge. The Prosecutor, who also briefed the press after the judgment, explained that the couple has pleaded guilty for violating the infectious disease emergency regulations passed by the government of Lagos state. Moyosore said that the court sentenced them to pay a fine of N100, 000 each and also to observe community service for 14 days and also to be kept in isolation for the number of days to be determined by the Lagos State Ministry of Health. He, however, noted that the importance of the sentencing is to show that the regulations are important, adding that the restriction is not just because the government does not want people to move. Onigbanjo stated that the Government would not tolerate anybody to endanger others, hence, urged everyone to familiarise themselves with the law and to comply with the law. He added that the long hammer of the law would reach out to the violators sooner rather than later if the otherwise is done. The Matter between Attorney General of Lagos State V. Funke Akindele and AbdulRasheed Bello was brought before the Magistrate Court of Lagos State in the Ikeja Magistrate District Holden at Ogba, Charge No MIK/ A/43/2020 on the following charge Count ONE: That you Funke Akindele (1) AbdulRasheed Bello (2) on the 4th of April, 2020 at 9, Gbadamosi close, Amen Estate, Ibeju-Lekki in the Lagos Magisterial District gathered at the aforementioned address with over twenty persons contrary to the social distancing directives of Mr. Governor of Lagos state made pursuant to Regulation 8 (1)(a) & (b) and 17(1)(I) of the Lagos state infectious Disease (Emergency Prevention) Regulation 2020 and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 58 Public Health Law Cap P16 Vol. 9 laws of Lagos State 2015. Meanwhile singer, rapper Afeez Fashola better known Naira Marley have submitted himself to the State Criminal Investigation Division, Panti having been declared wanted by the state government for violating the social distance rules. According to the state Police command spokesperson, Bala Elkana, who confirmed this, Naira Marley arrived the SCID office on Monday afternoon April 6, and has been interrogated. He will also be charged to court for violating the restriction orders.