Two NASA astronauts and a
 Russian cosmonaut on Friday made a safe return from the International 
Space Station to find the planet transformed by the coronavirus 
pandemic. Andrew Morgan, Jessica Meir and Oleg Skripochka 
touched down in central Kazakhstan at 0516 GMT in the first returning 
mission since the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global 
pandemic in March. Morgan had been on the ISS since July last year, while Meir and Skripochka arrived in September. “TOUCHDOWN! Welcome home, Oleg Skripochka, Andrew Morgan and Jessica Meir!” Russia’s Roscosmos space agency wrote on Twitter. Unusually, NASA and Roscosmos did not show live footage of the trio parachuting down in their Soyuz landing capsule. This was scrapped “due to technical limitations associated with the epidemiological situation,” Roscosmos said. Subsequent  footage from the landing site showed recovery crews wearing face masks  and rubber gloves as they hauled the crew members out of the Soyuz MS-15  capsule, which was lying on its side. COVID-19: Katsina raises N241m in donations as cases rise to 9 “Please keep your distance,” one ground crew member could be heard telling another. While
 the trio’s landing site southeast of the Kazakh town of Dzhezkazgan is 
the same as for previous crews, the pandemic has forced changes to 
mission-end protocol. The crew will not be flying back home via 
Kazakhstan’s Karaganda airport as usual because it has been shut down, 
like so many other airports across the world. Instead, Skripochka 
will fly from the Baikonur cosmodrome used to launch missions to the ISS
 while the NASA duo will take off in a plane from the steppe city of 
Kyzlorda after a drive of several hours. In a media appearance aboard the ISS prior to her  departure, Meir said it would be difficult to forego embraces with  family and friends as she gets to grips with a new culture of physical  distancing on Earth. “I think I will feel more isolated on Earth 
than here,” reflected Meir, who made history as one half of the first 
all-women spacewalk along with NASA colleague Christina Koch in October. – End to Russian monopoly – While the astronauts’ 
home planet fights the global battle against COVID-19, the ISS is also 
entering a new era as it prepares to welcome the first crew flown by 
Elon Musk’s SpaceX company as early as next month. NASA has said  that the SpaceX flight taking NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug  Hurley to the ISS could launch as early as the second half of May,  ending Russia’s near decade-long monopoly on manned missions to the ISS  from its Baikonur launchpad.After blasting off from the Kennedy Space Centre, the  pair will spend two to three months aboard the orbital lab, interrupting  the usual rhythm aboard the ISS, where missions typically last around  six months or longer. They will be met by Anatoly Ivanishin and 
Ivan Vagner of Roscosmos and NASA’s Chris Cassidy, who arrived at the 
ISS from Baikonur on April 9, the first new crew members to join after 
the pandemic began. The International Space Station — a rare example of 
cooperation between Russia and the West — has been orbiting Earth at 
about 28,000 kilometres per hour (17,000 miles per hour) since 1998