For the first time, the plight of the disabled in Nigeria is being felt by a majority of the population. Limited movement, restriction of the application of physical and mental abilities, frustration due to limited access to care, and an aching reminder that the future might offer no respite are all experiences the disabled feel. For the self-respecting person, disability as a tool of survival offers no avenue to dignity since most first impressions are that the victim is a mendicant. In the past few days of the Covid-19 lockdown, the reality of the level of national and individual poverty and financial disability among has become obvious. This is being made worse now that banks are beginning to fail with regard to providing financial services like making their Automated Teller Machines (ATM) dispense cash. ‎The little savings, or remnants of incomes before the pandemic are now becoming inaccessible. Banks are not opening as they should and prices of commodities are gradually settling above ceiling level. Mental health is beginning to become a challenge as people read and listen to statistics of the dead or dying across the globe. For those who are forced to share a small living space with many others, privacy has become a challenge. And the greater majority of Nigerians in semi-urban and urban settings live in this manner. Easter: Embrace righteousness, Oyo ALGON urges Christians The rural areas are affected too. Despite the lull in kidnapping and herdsmen and farmers clashes, the fear of going to the farm as the rains crawl in‎, is real. For those in the North East, Boko Haram is still a threat. In other areas the likelihood of access to agricultural inputs like fertilisers and improved seedlings is not promising as the nation’s wheels grind gradually to a halt. Big firms are counting huge losses while small firms are foreseeing inexistence. Calamity and disability, whose sudden onset nobody or nation is ever adequately prepared for, are gradually taking a form. Unlike the civil war which we quickly recovered from across a few years, the Covid-19 pandemic may stretch our resources and bounce-back thinner: because global oil prices have shrunk considerably. The campaign against domestic violence, drug misuse and abuse, gambling, robbery and all forms of criminal activities should start now! The more confined people are, the more unable to define the direction of their aspirations they feel;  the more frustrated they feel; the more uncertain they are about battling an adversary they cannot quickly identify or subdue, the more financially incapacitated they become;  and the more unhappy they become, the more they will become incapacitated and handicapped. Mental attrition will set in; use of recreational and hard drugs could set in; short fuses will birth themselves and all sorts of frustration will manifest. More than any other time in our history as a nation state, individuals, communities and governments need to supply ideas that will mitigate frustration, poverty, ‎hopelessness; qualities that surround the handicapped but are not easily seen by those who are not. What to do is this: there should be a deliberate national plan of action towards fighting all the ill winds of the coronavirus. ‎Hunger should be fought now by everybody through farming. It should be known that not all farming involves tilling and clearing. All the options in agriculture should be prioritised. Mental health professionals should also be incentivised to work assiduously along with investment advisers to teach courage and optimism in trying times. As part of the fallout of this pandemic, Nigeria should begin to see how the disabled – the poor and needy, those in orphanages and displaced people’s settlements, and those incapacitated due to spinal cord injuries and various forms of health challenges, live. Forced home stay, loss of incomes, loss of employment and lack of a sense of self cannot be quashed by financial palliatives whose distribution is not scientifically far reaching. There is a need to engage the minds of the people while fighting the imminent danger of mass hunger. We have enough hands to put to positive use and must have enough gumption to seek the right way to change the drift towards disability, to ability and triumph. We should be on top of the present calamity before us by recognising what can save our country from collapse. The first challenge is to make food available through massively mobilising people to and investing in agriculture. When hunger has been battled, other challenges can be discussed.