The Lagos State Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Mr. Segun Dawodu has appealed to residents, especially the youths, to fully comply with President Muhammadu Buhari’s lockdown order in the state as long as it subsists. Dawodu, who made the appeal in a statement at the weekend, decried several reported cases of contravention of the order by some residents engaging in sporting activities on major highways. READ ALSO:  Covid-19: NFF To Distribute Yams To Nigerians – Pinnick He said that the decision to shut down all sporting facilities across the state was a tough one for the government, but maintained that the action was taken in the best interest of the masses to prevent a spread of the Coronavirus disease. The Commissioner said the present situation across the metropolis is a very challenging one, pleading that residents should endure a little bit longer until the scourge of COVID-19 is eradicated and normalcy returns to the society. ”The total disregard for the stay-at-home order by some people in the state is inexcusable. I will advise our youths to channel their energy and vigour to productive ventures during this period, by engaging in positive usage of the social media and devoting more time to studying and learning,” Dawodu stated. He, however, commended some of the youths who had already registered to complement the State government’s efforts in the fight against the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos State through volunteerism. While urging more of the youth population in the state to also register as volunteers under the office of the Special Adviser to the Governor on Sustainable Development Goals and Investment, via www.lsvc.ng, Dawodu explained that the act is capable of providing opportunities for enrollees to learn new skills, become better persons and secure job placements. The Commissioner also disclosed that the Ministry has devised a faster means of attending to cases of abuse in Lagos through the special phones lines: 08172457792, 09077333426 to allow residents report cases or issues relating to sexual, domestic and child abuse for a prompt response.