Bayern Munich have extended the contract of local favourite Thomas Mueller to 2023, the Bundesliga record champions said Tuesday. Mueller joined Bayern aged 10 and worked his way through the junior teams before joining the first team squad in 2009. His previous deal was due to expire in 2021. “I’m happy that we could reach agreement with Thomas,” said sport director Hasan Salihamidzic. “Thomas is a special player for us, an identification figure for the club and our fans, a leader on the pitch who has achieved a lot with Bayern.” The 30-year-old Mueller has won eight Bundesliga titles and five German Cups with Bayern along with the 2013 Champions League. He also lifted the World Cup with Germany in 2014 but was dropped from the national squad by coach Joachim Loew early last year. “This club is not just an employer for me,” Mueller said. “It is my passion. I’m happy that I can still be here two years more and will give everything on and off the pitch.” Mueller made his 500th competitive appearance for Bayern earlier this season but initially had to settle for substitute appearances under former coach Niko Kovac. However, he has regained his starting spot under new boss Hansi Flick – who himself extended his contract to 2023 last week – and Bayern credit him with 18 assists along with 10 goals in current campaign. Bayern lead the Bundesliga, which is currently suspended amid the coronavirus crisis, by four points and remain in both the German Cup and Champions League. “Both sides signed with a really good feeling,” said Mueller. “I’m sure that once we’re playing again, we’ll continue to be very successful. Read also: Britain’s Johnson given oxygen after move to intensive care “For me, the number one priority was to extend at FC Bayern – and the club felt the same way. I’ve been with Bayern for a good two-thirds of my life now, so you can’t say that the club and I are just along for the ride – we fight for each other.” Board member and designated chairman Oliver Kahn said Mueller had “shaped the club for more than 10 years with his great football and his likeable personality. “And with his easy manner, he conveys a lot of what Bayern stands for, and wants to stand for, out into the world.” (dpa)