Chief Richard Akinjide, Minister of Education in the 1st Republic, Minister of Justice in the 2nd Republic and  elder statesman has died at the age of 88. The 88-year-old legal icon died at the University College Hospital, Ibadan after a brief illness on Tuesday The 88-year-old legal icon died  Akinjide died at the University College Hospital, Ibadan in the early hours of Tuesday after a brief illness Daughter of the legal icon and  former Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT),  Jumoke Akinjide,   revealed that her father died just after midnight at the UCH in Oyo State. The Public Relations Officer at the UCH, Mr Toye Akinrinlola, also confirmed the death of the former AGF. He, however, said he was brought in dead to the UCH in the very early hours of the day and taken to the morgue around 3am. Also, former Aviation Minister Chife Femi Fani-Kayode speaking on Akinjide’s death said  Our father Chief Richard Akinjide, Minister of Education in the 1st Republic, Minister of Justice in the 2nd Republic, great nationalist & elderstatesman has passed on. We loved & reverred him. My prayers are with his family. The SW & Nig. has lost a great son. May his soul RIP. Akinjide, an Ibadan high chief, attended Oduduwa College, Ile-Ife, in Osun State and passed out with a distinction (Aggregate 6). The legal luminary proceeded on his educational journey in the United Kingdom in 1951 and was called to the English Bar in 1955. He was later called to the Nigerian Bar and he established Akinjide and Co legal firm. COVID-19: Govs to review situation The late Akinjide was a Minister of Education in the First Republic during the government of Alhaji Tafawa Balewa and Minister of Justice in the Second Republic during the administration of former President Shehu Shagari. The deceased was also a member of the Judicial Systems Sub-Committee of the Constitutional Drafting Committee of 1975 to 1977. He joined the National Party of Nigeria in 1978 and became the legal adviser of the party.  