Mulamwah admitted he and his girlfriend sadly lost their child three months into the pregnancy The funnyman said the stress from constant trolling on social media played a huge part in the loss of his baby and that changed him forever – The entertainer stated he expected his online career to bring him joy but all it did was cause him pain and suffering Online funnyman Kendrick Mulamwah has finally thrown in the towel and abandoned his comedic side. Am sorry 😞 , thread . pic.twitter.com/m14BrHjHYi The actor who always had a comical take on normal life occurrences burnt his signature jacket to express his sadness over his departure. In a saddening Twitter post, the entertainer said his decision was informed by varied valid reasons including the loss of his baby. The heartbroken guy who rose to fame thanks to Instagram skits said his life was filled with constant attacks, rebuke and trolling ever since he joined the entertainment industry. Mulamwah said he was human and has had to stomach a lot of bile from naysayers who did not consider his feelings or those of his girlfriend. According to the public figure, he expected his career to bring smiles on people’s faces and lift the spirits of those who were sad and down. However, instead of being fulfilled, he has had to deal with self-doubt, disappointed and unsolicited criticism from people who did not know better. Mulamwah added it was not an easy decision to make but it was necessary. “I am sorry guys, what was to make me happy makes me sadder, has brought me more enemies than friends and too much negativity. I was not here for fame and bad blood but for fun,” the heartbroken entertainer said. The downcast comedian admitted all the trolling from his critics affected his partner and she ended up suffering a distressing miscarriage. He said they lost their child three months into the pregnancy and even when his lady was in a hospital bed, people still managed to turn her into a punching bag. READ ALSO  Covid-19: Corps member gets infected as Ondo records 3rd confirmed case “I have never been the same since then but we are men and keep smiling to cover the grimace. I am sorry to all those who looked up to me,” Mulamwah added. Not too long ago, the soft spoken entertainer went head to head with a woman who made fun of the shape of his head.