The Dutch football federation (KNVB) called an end to the
 2019-20 season on Friday, as the Eredivisie became the first top 
European league called off due to the coronavirus pandemic. No
 team will be declared champions after Ajax and AZ Alkmaar were left 
level on points at the top of the table with nine games still to play. “Unfortunately,
 given the measures (banning large-scale gatherings) taken by the 
government, it became impossible to finish the 2019-2020 season,” the 
KNVB said in a statement. “Public health always comes first. This 
is not just a football problem given what the coronavirus is doing to 
society. Nonetheless, the professional football committee is aware that 
the decisions today are going to cause great disappointment for some,” 
it added. Leaders Ajax, above AZ on goal difference, will qualify 
automatically for next season’s Champions League group stage, according 
to the KNVB, which will await a definitive verdict from UEFA on May 25. AZ  will likely enter the competition’s qualifying rounds, with Feyenoord,  PSV Eindhoven and Willem II set to compete in the Europa League based on  the final standings. AbdulRazaq greets Muslims at Ramadan The KNVB announced its intention to scrap 
the season on Tuesday following the Dutch government’s decision to 
extend a ban on mass gatherings until September 1. Matches behind 
closed doors were said not to be an option as they are considered events
 which require a permit and police presence. The final decision 
was made following a meeting with the clubs on Friday. Next season will 
begin with the same 18 teams that started the aborted Eredivisie 
campaign. “There will be no relegation, nor promotion,” said the 
KNVB, which is expected to face legal action from SC Cambuur and De 
Graafschap — the top two clubs in the second division. The Belgian
 Pro League is expected to take a similar decision to that of their 
neighbours next week, with Club Brugge to be awarded the title. Football
 in Europe ground to a standstill in mid-March following the spread of 
the virus across the continent. However, Germany is preparing to resume 
the Bundesliga on May 9 behind closed doors, if the government gives the
 green light. Players in France could begin to return to training 
starting May 11, if lockdown restrictions are eased, while La Liga is 
also planning for clubs to resume training early next month. No potential restart dates have yet been announced for leagues in Italy or England.