MTN  Nigeria has stated that over N1.4 billion worth of airtime, data and  devices has been offered for connectivity support to frontline health  agencies including NCDC to combat covid-19 in Nigeria.The telecommunications giant stated this when it unveiled its new service Y’ello Hope Package to address the impact of COVID-19. MTN  Chairman, Ernest Ndukwe said; “The threat that COVID-19 represents to  Nigeria requires an unprecedented response from the public and the  private sector. We must all work together to develop and deliver the  solutions that will allow us to contain this threat and protect the most  vulnerable in our communities across the country.”In  a statement, the company stated that, “as more and more people  nationwide brace for the immense human, economic, and social cost of the  COVID-19 pandemic, we want to reassure everyone. “We  the staff, management and Board of Directors of MTN Nigeria and the MTN  Foundation are committed to doing all we can to help you stay connected  and support efforts to contain the outbreak. We are in this together.“COVID-19  is a new test of our collective strength. In response, we have deployed  the first phase of a broad set of investments in support of the  national effort to contain it. Including:“In supporting government response efforts:“Supporting government (Federal and State) with communication systems, analytical response management and risk profiling.“Over  N500 million worth of airtime, data and analytics, through the Nigerian  Governors’ Forum (NGF) in support to State governments to facilitate  communications during travel restrictions.“Connecting  medical personnel: Over N1.4 billion worth of airtime, data and devices  for connectivity support to frontline health agencies including NCDC.“Connecting  customers with essential health information: Free data access to be  used to access websites with validated information on COVID.“Making it easier to stay in touch and support each other:“Up to 300 free SMS per month for all our subscribers, ensuring they can communicate with loved ones;“MTN has partnered with Ayoba, a messaging OTT provider, to grant free daily data access to its subscribers. “Free money transfers using the MoMo Agent Network from Y’ello Digital Financial Services.”The  company stated that it has partnered with the NCDC to provide its staff  with access to voice and data services, telephones and toll-free lines  to co-ordinate their response. It also explained how it has supported the Nigerian government to combat the deadly diseases.“We  are supporting government at federal and state levels with  communication systems, analytical response management and risk  profiling. These tools  will enhance the capacity and preparedness of each state to manage the  outbreak proactively, enabling them to identify the vulnerable segments  of the population who require social intervention during the lockdown.”