In 1918, two major issues contributed to the gravity of the pandemic: the war effort and limited scientific knowledge. World War I was not only costly, it required much of the medical community to be stationed overseas. In 1918,little was known about influenza. While this lack of knowledge did not negatively impact infection control actions, effective treatment and prevention methods were not fully utilized. When influenza first appeared in Minnesota on September 27, the state was ill equipped for a health crisis. Although World War I was coming to an end, more than four million Americans were mobilized and the nation’s resources were directed to supporting the war effort. An editorial in the Minneapolis Tribune daily newspaper described the lack of physicians and nurses: “The medical fraternity is severely taxed already. So many physicians and surgeons have gone to Europe or to training that those at home have more than they can attend to comfortably and to good advantage.” The number of influenza patients that needed the attention of physicians and nurses overwhelmed St. Paul and Minneapolis clinicians. The war’s considerable drain on the medical profession was compounded by other factors that hindered nurse and physician mobilization. Methods to keep them healthy while caring for influenza patients were ineffective. Many health-care providers fell ill, and some died. At one point, Minneapolis’s City Hospital reported that “nearly half of the nursing staff has been ill with influenza in the last three weeks.” This bleak situation discouraged some clinicians from providing their services. Dr. H.M. Bracken, Secretary of the Minnesota State Board of Health, reported to Dr. Rupert Blue, U.S. Surgeon General, on his campaign to recruit physicians for the influenza effort: “A number who we have called for have made excuses and have not come at all.” Other physicians who were recruited by Dr. Bracken simply did not show up. READ ALSO   U.S. tops COVID-19 death with 14,797 Medical science maintained that influenza was bacterial in origin. Physicians at Fort Snelling claimed that the “bacillus influenza of Pfeiffer,” which is today known as Haemophilus influenzae, was the cause of Spanish Influenza. Nevertheless, despite this lack of understanding about viruses, advice to curb infection was relatively accurate. The Minnesota State Board of Health recommended the use of handkerchiefs to cover sneezes and coughs, plenty of fresh air, avoidance of the sick and of crowds, and to contact a physician if ill.