6. The Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) has condemned the persistent harassment of journalists in Ebonyi State on the orders of the state power brokers, including the Governor of the state, Engr. Dave Umahi. The latest, the NGE said in a statement on Wednesday, is
the arrest of a reporter with Vanguard Newspapers, Mr. Peter Okutu, on Tuesday,
April 21, 2020 at the behest of the Chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government
Council, Mr. Clement Odah. The NGE said Okutu was arrested in a gestapo manner by
men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, at a hotel in Abakaliki, after he
was lured to the hotel by Mr. Odah, over a story on military invasion of
Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo community in Ohaukwu Local Government Council, adding that the
bone of contention was not on the veracity of the story but on the number of
persons allegedly killed during the military invasion. The statement reads in part: “Reports said Peter Okutu
was invited to the hotel by the Local Government Chairman. Presuming that the
LG Chairman was going to give more insight into the matter, he went with
another reporter from another newspaper only for him to be arrested, harassed
and whisked away by men of the SARS. “Surprisingly, the State Commissioner of Police, Mr.
Awosola Awotunde, rather than intervene and rein in his men, justified the
arrest and accused journalists of “heating up the polity.” “The Guild recalls that a similar incident took place in
the same Ebonyi State barely four days ago, when a reporter with Sun
Newspapers, Mr. Chijioke Agwu, was harassed and arrested at the Government
House by the Chief Security Officer, CSO, on the orders of Governor Umahi. The
reporter was subsequently handed over to the state’s Commissioner of Police. “The angst of the Governor was a feature story on Lassa fever in Ebonyi, which centred mainly on statistics sourced from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, published in the Daily Sun of Friday, April 17, 2020. The Governor had also announced a ban, on The Sun and The Vanguard reporters, for life from the Ebonyi Government House. Group alerts Nasarawa governor on impending security threat “The Guild finds these actions of state actors utterly
reprehensible and condemnable. We are in a democracy and the Media “shall at
all times be free” to perform its duties without hindrances, as enshrined in
the 1999 Constitution (As amended). Ebonyi State should not constitute itself
into a “Mafia” state where dictatorship, suppression of free speech and
denigration of fundamental Human Rights reign supreme. It is not a good badge
for the Governor or any other state actor to wear. It is disgraceful and
disgusting. The Guild abhors such attempts at gagging free speech. “The Guild would like all stakeholders to note that
journalists are not criminals who should be harassed, intimidated, arrested and
subjected to inhuman treatment under any guise. If any person feels maligned by
a media report, the least required of such a person is to put forward what he
or she considers the correct narrative and in the spirit of right of reply, the
media is obligated to publish same. Resorting to ambushing, arm-twisting and
sundry guerrilla tactics does not help to assuage the matter, rather it
exacerbates it. “Journalists are critical stakeholders and partners in
national development and no attempt should be made to derail the efforts of the
Press towards building a greater Nigeria”. The NGE called on the Inspector General of Police, Mr.
Mohammed Adamu, to call his men to order, not only in Ebonyi State, but all
over the nation. “The body of Editors calls for immediate cessation to all
forms of harassment and arrest of journalists across the nation. “The Guild will also hold Governor Umahi responsible for
the safety of, not only the two affected reporters, but other journalists
practising in Ebonyi State,” the NGE added.