.Banks to open for operations from 8am to 2pm effective May 4 .Schools, religious centres to remain closed .Bans all inter-state travels The Presidential Task Force on Coronavirus pandemic otherwise referred to as COVID-19 has released the guideline protocols for the gradual easing of the lockdown in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos, Ogun and other states. The Chairman, Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, who gave the breakdown at the PTF daily briefing in Abuja, on Wednesday, said that banks will be allowed to open for operations from 8am to 2pm within the week effective May 4, 2020. READ ALSO:  Breaking: Borno first civilian gov Mohammed Goni dies The guideline, according to the SGF, was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive on the step by step re-opening of the economy which will span for six weeks broken into three tranches of two weeks each. Mustapha said that the phased strategy was designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruption while strengthening the public health response. Some of the guidelines include ban on inter-state travels except for movement of essential goods like Agro-products, petroleum products and essential services. Schools and religious centres are also to remain closed. Also, offices and businesses that will be allowed to gradually re-open will be mandated to fumigate and decontaminate their environment, provide hand sanitizers and hand washing facilities and mandatory use of face masks. He said: “In line with the President’s directives in paragraphs 34 to 41 of his broadcast, the Presidential Task Force has developed guidelines. The gradual reopening of the economy will stand a total of six weeks broken into three tranches of two weeks each. “For the avoidance of doubt, the following clarifications are provided; the overnight curfew is applicable nationwide. The inter-state travels are banned except for the movement of goods, agro products, petroleum products, essential services as directed by the President”. The SGF, ahead of the reopening of offices, warned corporate organisations to take some precautionary measures before resuming. Some of these include maintaining social distancing, making available hand sanitisers, and fumigation of their environment among others. “The management of various offices, premises and businesses that will be gradually reopened are mandated to ensure that the following preparatory steps are taken: “Fumigation and decontamination, an arrangement made for physical distancing, provision of hand sanitisers and handwashing facilities, application of the policy of mandatory use of face masks, provision of thermometers for temperature checks,” he said. While calling on organisations to give special consideration which must be given to persons living with disabilities, Mustapha asked business managers to increase communication with their staff on COVID-19. The SGF added that the technical team of public health experts sent by the PTF to Kano has begun the evaluation of the situation in the state. “In furtherance of tackling the situation in Kano, the technical team of public health experts sent by the PTF has begun the evaluation of the situation in the state, working in collaboration with the state’s Team. “I am pleased to also inform you that the operationalisation of the laboratories in Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and Bayero University Kano, will considerably improve our response to the pandemic in Kano State”. On his part, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, expressed concern over the increasing figure of confirmed cases. Ehanire stressed the need to provide and prepare Isolation centres and more bed spaces in all States of the Federation. “I wish to appeal each State authority and the FCT to give first line attention to this requirement, in order to meet expectations and obligations. “As testing ramps up, the need will become more and more obvious. It should therefore be prioritized, so that we are not taken by surprise. “I should take the opportunity to request Distinguished Senators, Honourable members of House of Representatives and States Assemblies to also get involved in the disease surveillance and notification efforts in their constituencies and to actively support the drive to rapidly increase bed spaces for Isolation and treatment in their states. “I shall also strongly urge those who test positive for COVID-19 to cooperate with the directives of authorities, on Isolation, so as not to constitute a risk and a cause for public concern”, the minister added.