Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that the state presently has no case of Coronavirus patients. Wike stated this in a statement while announcing total lockdown of parts of Port Harcourt on Saturday. Covid-19: Gov. Wike announces total lockdown on parts of Port Harcourt He said: Following the treatment and discharge of the second  case in our treatment centre, I am very delighted to announce that there is presently no single case of the presence of coronavirus in our State. “The reality is that the virus is well around us, and probably, could even be within us among asymptomatic carriers. “This being so, we must all concede to the fact that our ambitious battle against the spread of the coronavirus within our State is clearly not yet over. “We must therefore not be tempted or pressured to lower our safeguards until the threat is eradicated and we are totally and completely safe and free from this pandemic. Governor Wike expressed happiness with the treatment and discharge of the two first coronavirus cases in the state. “This is real good news we must all celebrate and thank the Almighty God for answering our prayers and shielding our State from this dreadful epidemic, which has caused so much death and untold human misery across the world.” Governor Wike said even though the State has no case for now, it will continue to work to ensure that the people are protected from coronavirus. “Let me assure you that we are more than prepared, willing and able to go the entire length of the struggle to consolidate on the gains already made and ensure that we continue to keep Rivers State secure and free of this pandemic.” He added: “But as citizens, you must also not relent in your own responsibility to keep the virus away from our State. “As Government is doing its part, citizens must also do their part by faithfully complying with directives on social distancing and the logical cautions on regular hand washing, use of hand sanitizers and wearing of face masks, as the case may be. “ In a move to ensure social distancing and ensure the protection of the peOple, Wike announced a total lockdown of parts of Port Harcourt City Local Government Area  . The total and complete lockdown starts from 6am of  19th April, 2020. He said: “While we commend our people for generally adhering to our restrictions on social distancing, we deplore the lack of compliance with the order on shutting business activities by some residents in parts of the Port Harcourt. “These people are endangering the lives of everybody in the State. Consequently, we are constrained to place the following areas of Port Harcourt City Local Government Area under a total and complete lockdown until further notice: • Creek road, including Prison junction, Nembe waterside, Cultural Centre, Yam Zone and Ahoada Street. • Diobu area, including education bus stop, Kalabari by Odi Street, Afikpo Street, Gambia Street, the entire Ikoku Spare part zone, Rivers State University roundabout, and Abali Park under the flyover (both descending and ascending).” Governor Wike said though the measures are painful, it is the right thing  to do to check the spread of coronavirus in these areas. He said: “All residents and visitors to these neighbourhoods must stay at home. All business premises, shops and commercial interactions must also cease in these places with immediate effect. “We know how painful these measures are to the residents in particular, but at this critical moment, it is the right thing to do as a precaution to avoid potential exposure to and spreading of the virus from these areas.” The Governor warned that the same steps will be taken against parts of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area, if the continue to violate the State Government’s  directive. He said: “We have also noticed that stores and remote spaces are being converted to mini-markets in Obio/Akpor Local government Area by unscrupulous persons in defiance of the ban on market activities in the State. “This should stop immediately, otherwise, we shall be compelled to lockdown the entire Local Government Area and deal with those flouting our directives and undermining our efforts.” He regretted that  commercial bus and taxi operators in the State are crowding their vehicles with passengers in disregard of the order on social distancing. The Governor said: “This is as dangerous and unacceptable. The State Government will in the next few days take appropriate actions against all transporters should they fail to immediately enforce social distancing practices and the mandatory use of sanitizers and face masks in their operations. “We are equally monitoring the level of compliance to our restrictions on social gathering in all other local government areas and will take appropriate measures against communities that chose to imperil the lives of others by refusing to practice social distancing and operating within the prescriptions of the law.”