2nd LEAD .As FG urges Govs to stop playing politics with Covid-19 directives The Nigerian Association (NMA) has kicked against moves by some governors to relaxe measures put in place to reduce the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in some states of the federation. The NMA, in a statement
jointly signed by its President and Secretary General, Dr. Francis Faduyile and
Dr. Olumuyiwa Odusote, respectively, called on the state governments concerned
to rescind their decision in the interest of safety of lives. The body further expressed
rude shock over the comments attributed to the Cross River State Governor, Ben
Ayade, that social distancing is not needed while wearing a face mask. It would be recalled that
some state governors have since ordered the relaxation of the lockdown orders
and authorised mass observance of Jumat prayers and Easter Sunday services. The NMA also appealed to the
Nigerian Police Force and other security agencies to ensure that such
gatherings do not take place. “The attention of the NMA
has been drawn to some isolated statements negating the established measure of
preventing Covid-19- social distancing; and orders by some state governors
authorising the mass observance of Jumat prayers and Easter Sunday services. “Of particular concern are
the moratorium on the lockdown to allow mass gathering in mosques and churches
starting from Friday to Sunday in Rivers State and the lifting of the ban on
Friday prayers by Katsina and Kogi State Governments. “We are aware that similar
orders have also been given in Ondo, Ebonyi and Imo states which have approved
mass attendance of Easter services. “While appreciating the prime
place of religion in our national lives and especially the value Christians
place on Easter, we place on record that there is now the evidence of community
transmission of Covid-19. “As such, relaxing any
guideline that promotes mass gatherings in any part of our nation now can only
heighten and not flatten the curve of transmission dynamics.” “We therefore pray all
authorities concerned to rescind their decision in the interest of safety of
lives and implore the Nigerian Police Force and other security agencies ensure
that such gatherings do not take place”, the statement added. The NMA also called for thorough
screening of the visiting Chinese medical team by the Medical and Dental
Council of Nigeria (MDCN), and other relevant regulatory bodies. “We call on all healthcare
professionals to be wary of un-certified Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
from China. “We demand a thorough
screening of the medical team of experts by the Medical and Dental Council of
Nigeria (MDCN) and other relevant regulatory bodies to verify their status. “We further call on the
Federal Government to publish the names, designations/status and qualifications
of the Chinese medical experts.’’ Meanwhile, the Federal
Government has admonished some state governors to stop playing politics with
the directives issued to contain the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) spreading
across the country. The Minister of Information
and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed gave the admonition on Friday when he featured
on Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) programme, Good Morning Nigeria”. Mohammed, who was giving
update on efforts of the Presidential Task Force for the Control of Coronavirus
at containing the pandemic, underscored the need for continued engagements with
states and harmonisation of directives. The Minister, a member of
the task force said the kind of rifts and counter directives between some
states and the federal government in the efforts to contain covid-19 were
uncalled for and unnecessary. Responding to a question on
the controversy over the chopper that flew into Rivers State and the arrest of
the pilots, Mohammed said such rift was uncalled for and people should stop
politicising covid-19 fight. “The Federal Government has
responsibility to all Nigerians irrespective of the state they reside. “A situation where the Federal
Government needs exemption for certain category of people but the state
government will not cooperate is not helpful. “We will not succeed if
there is no cooperation with the state governments,” he said. Reacting to question on some
state governors that have ordered the relax of stay at home order for Jumat and
Easter festivities, the minister underscored the need for harmonisation of the
directive of President Muhammadu Buhari for lockdown in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun
states. “We have a very little
window, and as of today, there is no known cure or vaccine for this disease all
we have is Non Medicinal Intervention basically on prevention and management. “We need the cooperation of
the populace as a whole and they need to listen to what the Federal Government
is saying. “The whole essence of the
lockdown is that by the time we lockdown for 14 days it is a presumption that
whoever is incubating the virus must have manifested. “However, people can contact
the disease by not staying at home or not adhering to the hygiene instructions
like washing of hands regularly, using hand sanitiser and social distancing,”
he said. It will be recalled that as
parts of measures to check the spread of coronavirus, many states banned large
gatherings and restricted movements. However, despite the fact
that covid-19 as at Thursday had spread to 17 states with 288 confirmed cases,
51 recovered and discharged patients and seven deaths; some states have relaxed
the measures ahead of Easter and for Jumat prayers. Specifically, Governor
Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State approved the request of the Christian
Association of Nigeria (CAN) in the state to observe the Easter Sunday worship
in various churches across the state. Similarly, Governor Nyisom
Wike of Rivers State directed the Muslim to hold Jumat prayers and Churches to
hold Easter service accross the state with full congregation. Ebonyi State government
relaxed ban on burials by giving those in the state between April 9 and April
20 to bury their dead. Worshippers in the state are
expected to attend their normal service only on Sunday for Christians and
Friday for Muslims with effect from April 12. Similarly, Governor Yahaya
Bello of Kogi State directed that the ban on religious gathering be lifted to
allow for normal worship and services. In Katsina state, Governor
Aminu Masari directed that Muslim faithful will be allowed to observe their
Juma’at prayers under strict health and security guidelines. Governor Douye Diri of
Bayelsa State, on his part, relaxed interstate boundary closure, on the ground
that it would allow for foodstuffs, drugs and vehicles conveying personnel on
essential duty access the state.