The Jamatul Nasril Islam (JNI) and Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have called for better handling of the palliatives announced by President Muhammad Buhari in his nationwide address on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that President Buhari had in the address on the COVID-19 situation, announced new measures to offer palliatives to additional one million indigent Nigerians, among others. Dr. Khalid Aliyu, the Secretary General of JNI, said the presidential speech was apt and timely. READ ALSO:  Breaking: Kano confirms two new cases of Covid-19 “By and large, emphasis on the palliatives measures is laudable and at the same time problematic in terms of implementation going by the recent distribution. “We advise that a better means should be explored by those saddled with the responsibility to truly reach the indigent and the common man,” the JNI secretary general said. Also, the Chairman of CAN in Kaduna State, Rev. John Hayab, described the president’s  speech as one that “came with love, care and concern from the heart of a leader”. Hayab appealed to Nigerians to “support this move by our president to preserve our people from Covid-19. “The decision he took was not an easy decision and it require honest sacrifice from all of us. This sacrifice will bring about the best results for us all. “We all must discipline ourselves to stay at home, follow the advice and guidelines of our scientists, medical workers and government officials. “Mr President has again given the committee on palliatives another opportunity to correct the wrongs of the previous exercise. “Nigerians will want to see a transparent and humane approach by the committee in distribution of palliatives so that it will build the confidence of citizens on their President,” the CAN chairman said. He advised those entrusted with the responsibility of handling the palliatives to shun greed and any form of discrimination, as well as ensure that genuine persons benefit  from the support, “so that they will openly celebrate our President’s gesture”. “CAN will encourage pastors to intensify the sensitisation of members about the virus and appeal to members to be patient with the current reality and stay at home. “CAN will also call for more Prayer alters to be raised by all God fearing Nigerians for Divine intervention and protection of our heroes, the medical staff battling the virus, ” Hayab said.