.Suspends cheque clearing The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has assured Nigerians that financial services would be undisrupted during COVID-19 lockdown. This is even as it suspended the clearing of all cheque instruments in the Nigerian clearing system. The
 apex bank gave
the assurance on its official twitter handle @cenbank, assuring the 
general public that the financial services would be undisrupted during 
COVID-19
Lockdown. According to the
CBN, alternative payment channels such as electronic/internet banking, mobile
money, POS and USSD should be used during the no movement restriction order by
President Muhammadu Buhari. The Bank,
however, noted that in view of the ongoing restrictions and in order to check
further spread of the coronavirus disease, while urging the general public to
limit their use of cash and avail themselves of the use of alternative payment
channels. “Financial institutions
will remain operational during this period and therefore should guard against
panic withdrawals from their banks”, it explained. Meanwhile,from yesterday, Tuesday, 31 March
2020, the apex bank has suspended the clearing of all cheque instruments in the
Nigerian clearing system. A circular signed and sent out to all Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and the Nigeria Internal Settlement  System (NIBSS) by the CBN on Monday stated: “no fresh cheque instrument will be allowed to pass-through clearing system on March 31,  2020.” COVID-19: Don urges business operators to be creative “Only returned
cheques would be treated on the said date.” The circular
with reference identity REF: BKS/DIR/GEN/CIR/07/002 signed by Sam C Okojere,
Director Banking Services Department attributed the decision to “recent
developments and in furtherance to the Bank’s efforts to ensure hitch-free
clearing and settlement activities.” The recent
developments he referred to was President Buhari’s nation wide broadcast on
Sunday where he announced a lockdown in Lagos, Ogun states and Federal Capital
Territory for two weeks in the interim starting from 11 pm of March 30th, 2020
as a means of combating the spread of the Corona virus and to ensure the safety
of all Nigerians. However, the
circular noted that “settlement activities for electronic instruments will
continue to hold during this period of suspension.” In another
development, the Central Bank of Nigeria has released the list of financial
institutions that have been granted an exemption to be seen outside during two
weeks lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and the FCT. They are staff
of: the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Deposit Money Banks (DMBs); Nigeria
Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) Plc; Switching companies; Mobile money
operators and Payment solution service providers.