Nigeria’s war on terror remains unaffected by the COVID-19 pandemic, as the government is resolute, more than ever, to eliminate the Boko Haram terrorist group, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), has said. In a statement signed by Niyi Akinsiju, its Chairman and Cassidy Madueke, its Secretary, the group reacted to the relocation of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-General Tukur Buratai, to the North East to personally oversee the troops and operations in the battlefront, stating that this was a strong statement being sent to the terrorist group that their elimination was closer than ever. The group also noted President Muhammadu Buhari’s assurance at the sixth anniversary of the kidnap of the Chibok girls that he remains mindful of the welfare of the people, and fully committed to ensuring the release of the remaining Chibok girls. “This is quite heartwarming, especially at a time the world is experiencing such fears and uncertainties. COVID-19: Bauchi discharges 3 patients, tracing 400 contacts “General Buratai’s relocation to the North East signifies a fresh onslaught aimed at the permanent dislocation, termination and eradication of the terrorist group, Boko Haram. This renewed passion is going to be a morale booster for our troops. “We can boldly anticipate that the return of General Buratai from the North East theatre of operations, to the Federal Capital Territory would be to deliver the message of victory and total annihilation of the terrorist group; with Shekau’s scalp on his belt, in a manner of speaking”. The group stated that the President Buhari administration would do all within its power to secure the country, from both security and health concerns. “The nation evidently is fighting two wars, head-on, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the war against terrorism. It is sparing none of the oxygen it needs to take care of the lives of any Nigerian. The President has sworn his absolute determination to ensure the preservation of every Nigerian life. He is not flinching on this. “Nigerians can relax, be rest assured that they have a government who puts the lives of its citizens first – whether in matters of health, their security or their general welfare,” the statement added.