Nigerian leaders have been charged to copy from Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state who didn’t hesitate to declare public, his health status after he was tested positive for Coronavirus disease some weeks ago. A Bauchi based activist, Mr. Nasir Aliyu Usman who gave the charge in an interview with newsmen in Bauchi on Saturday evening also charged Nigerians not to perceive COVID-19 which has defied solution even from super power nations of the world as a disease that affects only rich men. The Activist who noted that Covid-19 is no respecter of status at national or continental levels, recalled that China was the first victim of the pandemic, yet, it has more or less recovered, giving out relief materials to other plagued countries. According him the quick recovery of China from the disease is due to the quality of its leadership which has generated common understanding and patriotism among its people. “Let me re-emphasise to our  people that, since people living in nations like America, Britain, Spain, Italy and other super powers with far more better healthcare services than ours are dying of coronavirus, it’s not rich men’s illness”. He avvered. The activist who presented some cartons of sanitizers and masks to some women and youth organizations in Bauchi commended Governor Bala for been the first among Nigerian leaders to have declared his coronavirus status publicly. He added tbat: “by this singular act, Governor Bala Mohammed has proven that he is not only a leader, but also a person who has the best interest of his people in his mind before any other consideration”. “Lack of honesty from our leaders at all levels of our governance has been our anti-growth and development as a people and nation”. Aliyu observed. The activist however appraised Bala for the successes recorded within his close to a year reign as Governor of Bauchi state. Aliyu who noted that Governor Bala is an experienced politician who knows what is good for his people whom he has always been in touch with before he was elected, said he has achieved over 70 percent success given the level of decay he met when he assumed office.