The Delta State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), may be heading for a crisis as the second term ambition of its Chairman, Mr Kingsley Esiso is steeped in further controversy following claims that political leaders in the oil rich state have finally dropped him. It was alleged that Mr Esiso was told point blank by some stakeholders in the party that he cannot be the party’s chairman for another term. A top government official who did not want his name in print, claimed that an agreement has been reached to finally disqualify the Itsekiri born politician, but that the decision was still being kept from the public, but that Esiso was told that much in Oghara, headquarters of Ethiope West Local Government. Another account said Sapele political leaders three weeks ago disqualified Esiso who was original picked from their zone. “The rejection is aimed at getting fair share of political privileges for Sapele” the member representing Sapele State Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Chief Felix Anirah said. ‘Okada’ ban: Ebonyi to provide foodstuff for registered riders At a meeting of Sapele political leaders, Anirah said a position zoned to a local government is meant for those carrying INEC voter’s card and the party’s membership card from the constituency or local government area. “The incumbent State Chairman, Chief Kingsley Esiso enjoyed full privileges and political benefits before he relocated to Ethiope East Local Government. In 2015, he moved his INEC voter’s card from Sapele State Constituency elsewhere. He cannot struggle with the constituents in Sapele Local Government,” he said. Anirah maintained that there was no tribal undertone in the decision of Sapele PDP leaders. “Nobody ever contemplated a tribal factor into the position of the State Chairman zoned to Sapele Local Government in Chief James Onanefe Ibori’s residence on Thursday, March 19, 2020 by the leaders of Delta Central Senatorial District on the instructions of Delta State PDP caucus where the governor and deputy governor of Delta State and other leaders of the party were present.” The lawmaker stressed on the fairness question, saying that the PDP leaders in Sapele rejected the candidacy of the incumbent chairman. He noted that the exercise of selecting a nominee for the position of State PDP Chairman by the leaders of the party in Sapele was undermined by the incumbent chairman. “The decision taken on March 19, 2020 as stated in agreement with all leaders of PDP in Delta Central with clear instructions that positions zoned to the various local governments should be filled and returned on Monday, March 23, 2020 to Senator Ighoyota Amori’s residence for onward transmission to the appropriate quarters. The incumbent assumes it is his birthright. He refused to consult the leaders of Sapele Local Government.” The Sapele representative scolded the State PDP Chairman for violating the Party’s Constitution. He also lashed out at Esiso for engaging in mudslinging by calling leaders of Sapele Local Government all sorts of names. He pointed out that the Office of the State Organizing Secretary and State Assistant Secretary were zoned to Ethiope East Local Government. “Sapele is gazetted for the Office of the State Chairman of the Party in Delta State.” Anirah pleaded with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Chief James Onanefe Ibori, Prof Sam Oyovbaire and leaders of Delta Central to ensure that only those with INEC voter’s card and party card in Sapele Local Government should be considered for the post of State PDP Chairman. “Hon Michael Diden started his political career in Sapele and until he moved to Warri North Local Government,  he enjoyed all the political privileges accrued party members. He lives in Sapele. He has never taken what is shared to Sapele because he does not vote in Sapele. Prince Joseph Atseyinku is a Local government and Ward 8 leader. Engineer Tony Aniretan is the PDP LGA Youth Leader. They have INEC voter’s card and party card in Sapele Local Government Area. They are accorded full status and benefits like other party members in Sapele.” A third account said Sapele political leaders recently took a stand on the matter, endorsing  former  Sapele Local Government chairman, Hon Godwin Atose as tjeir choice for the the party’s chairman. The leaders in a letter to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa nominated Atose as the choice candidate for the position of Delta State PDP Chairman, a position zoned to Sapele Local Government. They were said to have asked Esiso to forget the seat as the stage no longer favours his re-election Signed by Chief Anirah, Margaret Unukegwo and others, the leaders gave arrogance, lack of consultation, high handedness, selfishness, divide and rule policy as reasons for rejecting the incumbent chairman. The leaders also urged Governor Okowa to find and assign Esiso a position of board chairman. A meeting of political stakeholders was held Tuesday in Sapele to drum support for Chief Godwin Atose. A fourth account said Sapele Youths wrote a letter to the governor,  urging him to stop making Sapele a laughing stock. “In the spirit of our new democratic culture, fairness and justice, it has become necessary to appeal to His Excellency,  Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to stop those marginalising Sapele and plotting to give Sapele slot to Itsekiri or Agbor man,” Dr Peter Odiete, leader of the youths said.