Liverpool legend Kenny 
Dalglish has tested positive for coronavirus but is not showing symptoms
 of the disease, his family said Friday. The 69-year-old former 
Scottish international striker, who started his career at Celtic, was 
admitted to hospital on Wednesday for treatment for an infection which 
required intravenous antibiotics. “He was subsequently tested for COVID-19 despite having 
previously displayed no symptoms of the illness,” said a family 
statement. “Unexpectedly, the test result was positive but he remains asymptomatic. “Prior
 to his admission to hospital, he had chosen to voluntarily self isolate
 for longer than the advised period together with his family. “He would urge everyone to follow the relevant government and expert guidance in the days and weeks ahead.” Dalglish won the Scottish league title with Celtic as a player on four occasions before signing for Liverpool in 1977. At
 Anfield, he captured eight English league titles, three FA Cups and 
three European Cups during a glittering 13-year stint as a player and in
 two managerial spells. In his Liverpool playing career, he scored 172 goals in 515 games. Barcelona Refute Corruption After Resignation Of Six Board Members As
 well as his role in Liverpool’s golden era in the 1970s and 1980s, 
Dalglish received plaudits for supporting victims’ families after 96 
fans died in the 1989 Hillsborough stadium disaster. He also went on to coach Blackburn Rovers to the Premier League title in 1995. Dalglish, who also made more than 100 international appearances for Scotland, was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 2018. “Kenny
 would like to take this opportunity to thank the brilliant NHS staff, 
whose dedication, bravery and sacrifice should be the focus of the 
nation’s attention at this extraordinary time,” added the family 
statement on Friday. “He would also ask that they are given the 
space to do their jobs during what is an extremely challenging time for 
them and that his own family’s privacy is respected. “He looks forward to being home soon. We will provide further updates as and when it is appropriate.” The
 coronavirus has claimed the lives of nearly 9,000 people in Britain, 
while the number of confirmed cases in the country climbed Friday close 
to 74,000.