The Nasarawa state government has assured Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and indigent residents of welfare support during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Special Adviser to Governor Abdullahi Sule on Erosion Control and Waste Management, Alhaji Hashimu Jibrin-Gurku, said this when he led his sub-committee to distribute 100 bags of 25kg of rice as palliative for the poor of Gurku/Kabusu ward. He spoke to newsmen at the Gurku IDPs camp on Wednesday in Karu Local Government Area of the state. Jibrin-Gurku, who is a former lawmaker representing Karu/Gitata State Constituency, appreciated the state government for the gesture to the people of the area. “My visit alongside members of the distribution committee to the IDPs camp in Gurku is to end the distribution of rice to the vulnerable and the poor ones of this ward. “We have identified the less privileged and the vulnerable ones in all communities of Gurku/Kabusu ward. “We shared them the rice based on the number of the vulnerable ones identified in each ward,” he said. He thanked members of the ward distribution committee for their various contributions towards ensuring the success of the exercise. Jibrin-Gurku also appreciated other relevant stakeholders of Gurku/Kabusu electoral ward for being considerate in identifying with the poorest of the poor to benefit from the state government COVID-19 relief intervention. He called on the people of the area to continue to adhere strictly to preventive measures against COVID-19 in order to remain safe. Besides, the special adviser called on the people of the area and the state at large to pray and support Gov. Abdullahi Sule’s administration to enable him succeed. The former lawmaker enjoined the IDPs and other people of the state to live in peace and tolerate one another irrespective of their affiliations for development to thrive. Responding, the Chairman of the Gurku IDP’s Camp, Mr. Yohanna Zidiko, thanked God for the presence of the state government representative in the camp. Zidiko said the camp have more than 2,000 persons including over 50 widows with their children, saying the palliative will go a long way in easing their lives.