…APC: Action commendable, PDP: It’s a sign of lack of understanding of situation The Ondo State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed joy over what it called the ingenuity of the state government in declaring a 7pm to 7am curfew in the state. READ ALSO:  Parma players, coaches agree to forego one month’s wages But, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Ondo State will have none of that, as it has criticised the steps taken by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The APC however said the action of the government was a bold step to further restrict movements and avert disaster that could result from a careless approach to managing the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic. According to the party in a release signed by its state Publicity Secretary, Mr. Alex Kalejaye, “The measure becomes imperative to stem the activities of nocturnal operators, who, unfortunately, have an inelastic knack for violating reasonable orders and instructions. “Without disputes, no serious economic activities take place during the night seasons. Only sharp practices such as disregarding the closed-border directive; gathering at club houses and beer parlours happen at night. “It is unpleasant and myopic for anyone to disregard professional advice on issues that border on personal health and the health of others. It is a challenge, and beckons on concerted efforts to arrest derailments. “The action of the government, to us, is well thought out in the best interest of safety and wellbeing of the entire residents of the state. It is apparent that the government is being futuristic in its drive to ensure the curtailment of the global pandemic concern. “We therefore urge attention-seekers and professional critics to place public good over and above whatever personal gains. “The state chapter hails the governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, for being extremely sensitive, and proactive in rolling out measures aimed at protecting the populace. He has thus far demonstrated an unusual mastery in handling the fearful development. “We implore the people to be weary of living a carefree life at this critical time, but observe all guiding instructions from the government and its agents to forestall avoidable spread of the virus,” the party said. Reacting to the curfew declared by the governor in the state in a statement signed by its Ondo state spokesman, Zadok Akintoye, PDP said what the Governor should do to safeguard the lives of Ondo people was to totally shutdown movement across the state without delay. It said the dusk till dawn curfew declared by Governor Akeredolu showed a government that is totally ignorant of the culture of its people and disconnected from the people. The Ondo PDP noted that to restrict movements to nighttime was playing to the gallery and a cheap shot at seeking political benefit from a people whose very lives are threatened by the governor’s inefficiency. The party said the capacity of Governor Akeredolu to effectively manage COVID-19 was suspect, adding that the state government needed assistance in handling COVID-19, but has kept mute and rather resolved to playing politics with issues that affect the lives of the people. Akintoye stated that if not for the outcry of well-meaning citizens including the PDP, the governor would have put lives at risk by allowing Easter Sunday service to hold. According to the statement, “Is Akeredolu suggesting that the virus is inactive in the day time? Our people rarely gather in clusters at night and the larger percentage of citizens in Ondo State rarely stay outside their homes at this time. “The lives of our citizens are far more valuable that any selfish political benefit. Our concern now stems from the observed indecisive responses of this government to a matter that threatens the existence of our people and state. “Since the first index case was cited in our dear state, the response of the APC-led government has largely been reactionary and often indicates a government that does not truly believe the magnitude of threat posed by this virus to our people. “The ODSG has not shown itself capable of attracting the goodwill and support necessary to alleviate the suffering of our people at this time, because of its flipflop approach and wishy washy directives which are always reactionary as it seeks to copy what others have done without thinking through what is needed for our people,” the PDP said.