ARISE, which has been in the forefront of bringing primary health care to the most needy and helping to compliment government’s efforts in healthcare delivery, has donated medical supplies to the Lagos state coronavirus (COVID-19) response team as part of efforts to support the on-going battle by the state government to contain the fast spreading pandemic. The relief materials, which include 4,000 sanitizers; 20,000 hand gloves and 4,000 facemasks, would help to equip the medical team with necessary protective gears needed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. ARISE, a humanitarian and charitable organisation, has been in the forefront of bringing health care delivery to the most vulnerable in the society through their mobile clinics as well as donation of boreholes and medical reliefs. For over 11 years, ARISE has continued to reach out to many without bias, staring with its pioneer charity work labelled: “Faith and works” that is over 20 years old. This initiative has brought about activities including hospital visits, provision of essential materials for patients and hospitals, donations of incubators, oxygen gauge and blood pressure monitors to Lagos Island Maternity Hospital and a dialysis machine to the Gbagada General Hospital to mention a few. With the donation yesterday, ARISE has joined other well-meaning Nigerians and organisations at this crucial time in the fight against COVID-19, particularly the sacrifices that all medical personnel are making at this time as they occupy the frontline in the battle. Speaking while donating the medical supplies, Dr. Siju Iluyomade, founder/convener, ARISE, said: “ARISE takes health very seriously, because you need to be in sound health to do anything tangible. “Apart from the donation of personal protective materials, ARISE has free medical outreach at the Healing Stripes Hospital for Women every second and last Wednesday of every month. “Also, under our adopt-a-village scheme, we have adopted many villages in Abuja. We built a full-fledged functional borehole in three of the villages for the schools and separate ones for the communities and their leaders. “We built full resource and literacy centers, complete renovations of schools, supply of stationeries, books and brand-new classroom furniture. “What keeps me going is the reality that we are able to bring smiles, relief and hope to the lives of the people and the communities we come in contact with. “When you see that overwhelming look on the faces of the women, children and men at times, you even think you have to do more and you see them so elated and thanking God for ARISE. “We cannot help, but keep going, knowing we are touching and affecting lives positively and giving hope to those that are almost giving up,” she said.