The  African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) on Thursday rolled out a  $3-million grant to complement the African Union’s effort to combat the  dreaded COVID-19 pandemic. The
 Bank’s President, Benedict Oramah, who announced this in Cairo, Egypt 
said the grant was in response to a request by the African heads of 
state for the mobilisation of resources to tackle the pandemic. The request was reportedly made through the South Africa President, Cyril Ramaphosa, who is also the African Union Chairperson. Mr  Oramah said a significant proportion of the grant would go to the  COVID-19 Special Fund set up by the AU and the African Center for  Disease Control (Africa CDC). Facts  You Didn’t know about Yomi Obileye “We hope that our modest contribution will help to address some of the immediate needs of the AU member countries,” he said. He encouraged other African banks, funds, corporations and charitable organisations to also contribute to the relief effort. Mr
 Oramah said the Afreximbank worked with the United Nations Economic 
Commission for Africa (ECA) and the AU to mobilise funding for the 
COVID-19 mitigation responses. Highlighting
 the need for wide institutional support for the COVID-19 response 
effort, he said: “no one country or institution will be able to rise to 
the challenge of the pandemic on its own.” He said the latest grant was coming in addition to several initiatives by the Bank in support of the fight against the pandemic. Such
 initiatives, he said, include the $3-billion Pandemic Trade Impact 
Mitigation Facility (PATIMFA) launched in March, to help African 
countries deal with the economic and health impacts of the COVID-19 
pandemic. The
 Bank said it also set aside another $200 million for use in financing 
the production of COVID-19 equipment and supplies within Africa. He
 said the resource constraints and urgent nature of interventions on the
 ground required significant grant financing to ensure timely support 
for emergency interventions in combating the pandemic. In
 November 2014, Afreximbank also contributed $1 million to combat the 
outbreak of the Ebola disease which affected several countries in West 
Africa. In
 2019, the bank donated $1.5 million to countries in Southern Africa to 
support relief efforts for victims of a tropical cyclone, Idai.