As part of its determination to support the government’s efforts in curbing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, on Friday, says it has kicked off the distribution of loads of Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs) to hospitals across Lagos state. The
construction company explained that in the first leg of the distribution of the
PPEs exercise, commenced at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital,
LASUTH, Ikeja, covered General hospitals at Ikorodu, Agbowa to the General
hospitals at Epe and Ibeju-Lekki. According
to the firm, at each location, the management of the hospitals were full of
appreciation for Julius Berger
Nigeria Plc for the timely intervention of the company in the fight
against COVID-19.The donation of the PPEs is coming even as other palliatives by
the company including food items were distributed and its fumigation of parts of
the state continues. At Lagos Island, the General Hospital as well as the popular Lagos Island Maternity hospital got their share of the PPEs too. Osinbajo, ministers confer on economic sustainability plan Commenting,
Medical Director and Chief Executive Officer of Lagos Island Maternity, Dr.
Olufemi M. Omololu said, “this effort by Julius Berger is appreciated. On behalf of all of us here
and Lagosians, I commend the effort. Identifying with the government’s efforts in
this fight against Covid-19 by Julius Berger demonstrates the company seal and commendable desire to save humanity and Nigeria from the pandemic. We are
indeed grateful.” In
the second leg of the exercise, scheduled beneficiary-hospitals include general
hospitals in Badagry and Alimosho as well as the Lagos State Accident and
Emergency Centre and Maternity and Child Centre, Amuwo, amongst others. Meanwhile, Julius Berger’s statewide
fumigation exercise as well as the distribution of food palliatives across the
state both of which started weeks back continue. “The
 Board and Management of Julius Berger insists
that the war against coronavirus is a battle that must be won in the 
best interest of our country, people and economy”, said Prince Moses 
Duku, Group Head
of Julius Berger’s Media Relations Office.