The Chairman of Arewa Community in Lagos, Alhaji Dandama Yabo has commended the efforts of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led government in fighting the COVID-19 global pandemic revaging the entire world. Alhaji Dandama in an interview on Thursday said the governor through his efforts has shown to the entire world that Lagos is capable and prepared to handle any emergency situation. According to the Arewa Community Chairman, the case of COVID-19 has given Governor Sanwo-Olu an opportunity to demonstrate to those who before now were still doubting his ability to perform that he is more than able. Ikeja Electric: Supply of free electricity to Nigerians still a proposal, “I want to tell you that other states have a lot to learn from Sanwo-Olu, especially the way he is handling the fight against the global pandemic alongside his commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi. They started with sensitization programme where we, community  leaders were invited by the governor and we were asked to take the sensitization to the grassroots in our various communities. This has kept our people abreast of various preventive measures to be taken against the spread of the virus, then, he also made available test kits and more hospital beds while creating more isolation centres in Lagos, this is highly commendable, politics apart. You can see with the number of cases being discharged on daily basis now that the governor’s effort is yielding results and I know we will get over this in no distant time,” he said Commenting on the sit-at-home order of the government and its implications on the livelihoods of the people, the community leader who is also the head of Shukura Yam Market in Mile 12 said it has not been easy for the people, especially those who depend on daily work to eat. “I can tell you categorically that this is biting hard on the people, people are already hungry and they can’t wait for this to be over, every now and then they come to me for help. “Some would even come crying they have nothing to eat at home with their children and I have to do something in my own little way”, Dandama said. When asked if the palliative measure of the Lagos State government has reached his side, he said though the government is trying to reach many people but his people have not been reached with the government’s food items. He said if the government could distribute the relief materials to his Arewa community people perhaps that would relieve him of the number of  people that comes to him for help on daily basis during this period.