Standard  Chartered PLC has announced further support to curb the spread of the  COVID-19 pandemic with donation of $10 million to Red Cross and UNICEF. The
 Group on Thursday highlighted details on how it will provide both 
short-term relief, and longer-term assistance, for communities across 
its 59 markets via the recently launched US$50million Covid-19 global 
charitable fund. The lender explained that the fund will operate in two distinct components, immediate relief for communities by July 2020. Why We Are Not Doing Door-To-Door Sample Collection – NCDC DG According
 to the Group, it will provide US$25million of funding for immediate 
relief from the impact of Covid-19, with all funding commitments made by
 July 2020. To ensure funds are allocated on the ground where they canprovide rapid and targeted impact. Fo
 instance, the Group has pledged $5million of funding to the Red Cross 
for urgent medical support, including the provision of primary and 
secondary health care, communication of protection measures, provision 
of personal protection equipment (PPE) for Red Cross staff, and the 
distribution of food, care and education packages for those impacted by 
Covid-19. The
 financial fir, alos, pledged $5million of funding to UNICEF for the 
immediate educational support of vulnerable children across 12 markets 
in Africa and South Asia. “Funding
 will focus on the provision of remote education via TV, radio, online 
and mobile platforms and child protection measures, including 
alternative care arrangements and family tracing services for children 
separated from their families due to Covid-19, training for social 
workers to conduct home visits to vulnerable children for mental health 
support, and alternative care and protection services for children of 
parents or caregivers affected by COVID-19.” The
 group has also provided a $15million funding to its four Regions (ASEAN
 and South Asia, Africa and Middle East, Europe and Americas, and 
Greater China and North Asia) to disburse to local NGO partners. “To 
date, US$4.2million of funding has already been committed across 17 
markets.” On its phase two supporting economic recovery and protecting livelihoods,Standard Chartered PLC, said that it will
 provide US$25million of funding to protect employment and educational 
opportunities, aiding the long-term recovery of communities impacted by 
Covid-19. “Funding
 will begin in August 2020 with a target to deliver projects by the end 
of 2021. Part of the US$25million will be donated directly by Standard 
Chartered’s employees via a month-long giving campaign commencing on 27 
April”, the group explained. Although,
 the financial outfit said that its longer-term funding will focus on 
two areas, including training young people to regain employment, 
training new health workers, and re-training young people who have lost 
their jobs for new opportunities. Funds will be disbursed in partnership
 with local NGOs specialising in these areas. “Funding
 for micro and small businesses, including seed funding, training, or 
the adaptation of existing businesses to focus on new products or 
services. This funding is charitable and does not include commercial 
lending. Bill Winters, Group Chief Executive, Standard Chartered PLC, said: “Working
 with UNICEF and the Red Cross, as well as local NGO partners, will be 
critical in allowing us to provide rapid and effective medical and 
educational help to some of the most vulnerable people in our societies.
 But we can’t lose sight of the longer-term economic and health impact 
of Covid-19, and that is why our focus is also on supporting economic 
recovery and the protection of livelihoods. “I
 am incredibly proud that my colleagues throughout the bank have 
indicated so strongly their intention to make personal donations as part
 of our funding commitments.” Speaking
 on this development, Executive Director, UNICEF, Henrietta Fore said: 
“Under Covid-19, nearly 190 countries have imposed school closures, 
affecting 1.5 billion children and young people.  As the crisis 
continues to escalate, children confined at home are not only missing 
out on their education but on school meals and essential health and 
social-protection services. With so much at stake, UNICEF is grateful to
 Standard Chartered for their generous US$5 million contribution to our 
Covid-19 response to ensure that children and young people receive the 
support they need at this extraordinary time.”“The
 world is facing an unprecedented global emergency in coronavirus, and 
we are extremely grateful for the kindness Standard Chartered has shown 
through this generous donation”, Mike Adamson, CEO at the British Red 
Cross said.