Promos .Sets aside 129,973 polling units to serve as palliative distribution centres The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it is ready to assist the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on combating COVID-19 with 100 pick – up vans to ease movement of surveillance and distribution of materials. This, according to Barrister
Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter
Education Committee, was in respinse to a request by PTF to assist in the
effort to tackle what is clearly a national emergency that requires the support
of all national institutions. The Cimmission will also
avail all wards and polling units across the country for fistribution of
palliative measures by government, its agencies and private bodies. Okoye in a statement on Friday said “the PTF has requested for about 100 pick-up vans from the Commission’s fleet to be deployed for contact tracing, surveillance/laboratory and infection prevention/control in six states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the first instance. COVID-19: NCDC traced 6,700 contacts “The States are Lagos,
Osun, Oyo, Kano, Rivers and FCT. In addition, the Commission has also placed
all our State offices nationwide on standby in case the PTF requests for
additional support to combat the pandemic. “Furthermore, the
Commission is working with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and
Telecommunication service providers to assist in raising public awareness of
the pandemic by sending bulk messages (sms) to registered voters similar to what
we do for voter mobilisation. “Short messages were
adopted from the flyers/leaflets issued by the National Centre for Disease
Control (NCDC). This follows the suspension of the Do Not Disturb (DND) policy
on sending unsolicited messages to telephone subscribers by NCC. “Similarly, the
Commission is in discussion with the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster
Management and Social Development on the possibility of using our electoral
registration areas (wards) and polling units nationwide as locations for the
distribution of palliative and other relief materials to citizens. “The 8,809 wards and
119,973 polling units are located in various communities in the country and
citizens are familiar with their locations”. The Commission also assured
the public that it will join hands with all agencies and stakeholders to combat
COVID-19 in Nigeria. It urged all (save for those
on essential duties) to stay at home, maintain recommended social distancing
and remain safe by obeying all guidelines issued by the relevant authorities.