The management of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, led by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Greg. C. Nwakaoby, recently donated materials meant to support the efforts of the State Government in its fight against the Coronavirus pandemic. While presenting the materials, Prof. Nwakaoby expressed satisfaction so far in the efforts of the State Government towards preventing the spread of the deadly disease in Anambra State. He acknowledged that materials such as hand sanitizers and facial masks were produced by the university. In his words: “In the University, we decided to produce some of these materials and donate them to the Government as part of our contribution and in line with our Corporate Social Responsibility and Community Development efforts. It is our prayer that nobody will contract the COVID-19 and no Anambra born will die of the disease in Jesus Name… Amen! We hope that sooner than later, the world will be healed again”. The Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Solo Chukwudobelu and the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala, who received the materials on behalf of the State Government and the State Action Committee on COVID-19, thanked the management of the university for their timely support to the Government, especially at a time like this. Particularly, he expressed satisfaction to the fact that some of the materials were produced by the university. He expressed optimism that it will go a long way in supporting the efforts of the State Government in her response to Coronavirus disease. Materials donated include 3000 pieces of hand glove, 1000 pieces of facial masks, 20 pieces of hood, 10 pieces of infrared thermometer, and 1000 bottles of hand sanitizers. Members of the University Management who were part of the visiting team include the University’s Deputy Vice Chancellors, Prof. S.A.M Ekwenze, Deputy Vice Chancellor, Administration and Prof. Ellis Idemobi, Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics respectively.  Others are; the University Bursar, Dr. Ubaka Ilechukwu, the University Librarian, Princess Dr. Nwafor Orizu, the University Registrar, Dr. Ngozi Ezeibe, and the University Public Relations Officer, Dr. Christian C. Chukwueloka.