Christians all over the world that is threatened by ravaging Coronavirus pandemic, otherwise known as Covid -19, on Sunday, celebrated Easter in the most sober way ever. The Christian annual event which began on Good Friday with the crucifixion of our Lord Jesus Christ got to its climax on Sunday with the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Easter is preceded by a forty – day period of Lent fasting by Christians. The fasting terminated on Saturday, a day after our Jesus Christ was crucified on the cross. While on earth, Jesus stated that He must die but He will also resurrect on the third day (Matthew 20: 18-19), so his suffering on earth was to free man from sin and death. Coronavirus cannot take away our hope at Easter – Obiano Christians draws their faith from the fact that Jesus Christ resurrected from dead without which Christianity would not have been in existence. Resurrection therefore, is Christian proof that Jesus Christ is the son of God. Through the mystery of His resurrection, He proved his sovereignty over death and the power of sin (Colossians 2:15). He defeated sin and death, and by this delivered everyone who believed in him from the power of sin and of death. Benefits of Christ resurrection are numerous but suffice to mention a few the most essential been that His promise of salvation was achieved and assured for everyone that believed in him. The resurrection of Jesus gave him and his believers power above every other power and fulfilled the conditions that ushered in the ministry of the Holy Spirit. He completely reconciled man to his creator God. It clearly shows that the wrath of God was satisfied with the suffering and death of Jesus. The holy curse against sin was fully absorbed and the price of forgiveness totally paid. The righteousness of God completely vindicated. That there is power of life over death which every man must aspire and walk in righteousness diligently to earn. While on earth, our Lord Jesus Christ taught mankind the essence of love.  Love God with your whole heart and love your neighbour as yourself. He demonstrated by his own life of humility, love, service and sacrifice that the right path to follow in this life journey are his examples. This period of celebration of Easter therefore calls for deep reflection of one’s life. For Nigeria, it calls for a thorough reflection on the part of our leaders and persons in positions of authority. Jesus Christ preached against selfishness, greed, hatred, violence, etc. These vices have made our affairs ungovernable as they continue to breed all manners of corruption across all sectors of our society.  Christ also said that he who is aspiring to be a leader must be prepared to be the servant leader. We therefore urge our leaders to emulate him.