…Commends Umahi on border closure The Ebonyi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his proactive actions in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. This is even as the state APC also on Wednesday called on the
state governor, David Umahi to tighten the border closure across the state
until the coronavirus pandemic was over. The APC state chairman, Mr Eze Nwachukwu, at a press
briefing on Wednesday in Abakaliki said that the proactive steps taken by the
Buhari-led government were commendable. “The party applaud the Federal Government for approving test
and treatment centres in all the six geopolitical zones of the country and the
Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to ease emergency response and containment of
the virus. “It further commended Mr President for the palliative
programmes aimed at providing succour for the poor and vulnerable Nigerians.” Nwachukwu said that the emergence of test centres for
COVID-19 in Nigeria showed the President’s commitment and leadership to
Nigerians. “Most commendable is the proactive steps in setting up silos
in Nigeria to strengthen the nation’s strategic grain reserve. The government
has been distributing food palliatives from these silos to cushion the hardship
caused by lockdown and sit-at-home orders. “We in Ebonyi APC are proud of you Mr President and we
celebrate your efforts in making Nigeria great again.” Nwachukwu also commended the state governor, Chief Dave
Umahi for his resilience in the fight against the disease and ensuring that no
case of the virus has been recorded in Ebonyi. Umahi had immediately closed all the borders across the state to prevent the spread of the coronavirus to the state on hearing that the disease has entered Nigeria. BREAKING: El-Rufai recovers, tests negative for Coronavirus The state APC said it was supporting the Governor’s action
which according to it has worked very well and saved the state from contracting
the disease. Nwachukwu said the party was totally in support of the
closure of all borders in the state and recommended that it should be
tightened. He however urged the governor to reconsider the ban on
motorcycles in the state. He said that the ban has brought untold hardship to the
people and commercial riders who depend on the okada business for survival. Nwachukwu said, “we want to commend the state government on
the closure of the borders in Ebonyi state. This has really worked very well
and we are in support of it. We encourage them to close the borders even
tighter until the convid era is over. “We want to call on the Governor to kindly consider the
suffering and the plight of the Ebonyians and relax the ban on motorcycle in
Ebonyi State, let it be limited to the border areas. “The reason is obvious; Ebonyi State is an agrarian state,
we are all farmers and good number of us in Ebonyi here are poor people. Good
number of Ebonyians here are poor and the only means of transportation here
predominantly is the use of motorcycles. “So, it is difficult now for people to convey their farm
inputs to the farms. The implication is that if these local people who have
been doing great work to farm in Ebonyi State don’t have the means to convey
both the humans and materials to the farms, we are afraid that the post Convid
effect will be devastating. “In the light of the above, whosoever may have advised him
to put this total ban, we suggest he reverse this and relax it a little. We are
not against the ban, but we are saying it should be relaxed.” The Chairman also raised the alarm that APC members in the
state were being excluded in the compilation of names in the state for Federal
Government conditional cash transfer scheme and called for the immediate
inclusion of the members.