Following an alleged complaint of rape, stealing and attempted murder of a 17-year-old girl (name withheld), the Ogun state Police Command has arrested one Godday Robinson. It was learnt that the 28-year-old Robinson, who had been making advances to the victim, a factory worker, accosted her while returning from work on April 22. He allegedly dragged her to a bush, where he forcefully had carnal knowledge of her, stole her Samsung Galaxy phone, valued at N85, 000 and strangled her until she passed out. The victim was found unconscious by a Good Samaritan who quickly alerted the Agbara Police Area Command, whose operatives rescued the girl. According to the Ogun state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who spoke on the arrest of the suspect, the victim was revived, and succeeded in telling what happened to her. Oyeyemi said: “The suspect was arrested following a report received by the policemen attached to Agbara area command, that a young lady was lying unconscious in a ten feet deep pit in a nearby bush. “Upon the report by the Good Samaritan, the Area Commander, Agbara, Bolanle Muritala detailed his men to the scene where the young lady was rescued with the help of members of the public and she was quickly taken to a hospital. “Having regained her consciousness, the victim explained to the police that on April 22, while she was coming from night duty which she performed in the company where she works, the suspect who has been making advances to her accosted her, capitalized on the isolated nature of the area and dragged her into the bush where he forcefully raped her, dispossessed her of her Galaxy Samsung phone valued at N85,000, and then strangled her until she passed out momentarily. “Having believed that she is dead, he dragged her further into the bush and dumped her into the pit. After sometime, she came back to life and started shouting for help. “On the strength of her explanation, the area commander gave a matching order to his detectives that the suspect must be traced and apprehended. “The detectives swung to action immediately, traced the suspect and got him arrested April 24. “On interrogation, the suspect made a confessional statement and owned up to the commission of the crime, but blamed it on the devil.” Meanwhile, he disclosed that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and diligent prosecution.