A Non Governmental Organization, Political Renewal has accused the Senator representing Lagos West Senatorial District, Solomon Olamilekan Adeola of lying about the amount of money he donated to his senatorial district as palliative for the COVID-19 lock down. Coordinator of the group, Mumiin Olowosago, who made the allegation in a statement alleged that the purported N50 million cash gifts by Senator Adeola to the people of his Lagos West Senatorial District was not up to the said amount. According to him, information from the local governments that make up the district shows that the amount of money that got to each council and to the wards was far less that what it ought to be if indeed the money donated was the said N50million. CAN hails Kogi govt. for lifting ban on religious gathering “Yesterday, the social media was agog with news of Senator Solomon Olamilekan’s purported donation of N50 million naira to be shared among residents of his senatorial district as palliative for the lockdown occasioned by the COVID 19 pandemic ravaging almost all of the entire globe. “Investigations carried out by our team revealed that though money was shared among the twenty eight local governments constituting his senatorial district, the amount was a far cry from the N50 million said to have been expended by the Senator. “The purported N50 million naira, if divided by the 28 local councils in his district ought to be N1.7 million naira per local government, divide this by seven which is an average number of wards in each local government and you get N255,000 per ward. “Virtually all of the chairmen of APC local government branches in the senatorial district disclosed that the amount of one hundred thousand naira was sent to each council to be shared to the seven wards making it about N14,000 per ward. “They wondered how a hundred thousand naira could be shared to thousands of party faithful in each local governments, not to talk of the entire populace. “They therefore unanimously resolved to reject the amount which if added together is a paltry N2.8m, a far cry from the N50m announced to the world. To them, this act by the Senator is not new. Since assumption of office, the Senator had never deemed it fit to recourse back to his constituents, neither had he initiated any tangible project that would benefit them,” he alleged. The group quoted one of the political leaders as saying, “Last Yuletide, instead of sharing Christmas gifts to us who worked for his re-election, he was busy gallivanting the entire Ogun State, sharing money and gifts to them as if they’re the ones that elected him. Let him come back, we’ll show him the way to Ogun State.” Another Chairman, pleading anonymity, claimed that Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola popularly called Yayi has always been fraudulent in his dealings, “If you may recall, Yayi claimed that he is from Ishaga Orile, but the indigenous Ishaga people disowned him, he later claimed Ilaro and has now built a house in Abeokuta. Very soon, he’ll claim he’s from there as well.” Along the same vein, party faithful who claimed to have worked for the Senator claimed that he is evasive and too cunning for them, “Can you believe that the Senator has over ten telephone lines. Call him on any of them and you won’t get him no matter how many times you try. Not only that, he is fond of failing in his promises. Ask any leader in his senatorial district, they’ll tell you the type of person he is,” one claimed. However, the group, Political Renewal did not say whether or not it contacted anyone to whom the said money was handed over to  ascertain the actual amount, neither was there any effort to reach the Senator, even though our correspondent tried reaching him without success.