Following the extension of the 14 days lockdown by another 14 days by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has directed that all offices at the state Secretariat, Alausa as well as other government establishments across the state should remain closed for the period. A directive to this end which was contained in a memo by the Head of Service (HoS), Mr. Hakeem Mari-Okunola and addressed to all Ministries, Departments, Agencies, state Assembly, local governments and local council development areas, chairmen of all service commissions in the state, including the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC), Chief Medical Directors/Medical Directors of Hospitals etc. READ ALSO:  Take advantage of NIMR drive-through COVID-19 testing centre, D-G urges Nigerians The lockdown, according to the memo, is with effect from 11pm on Monday, 13th April, 2020. The memo reads: “sequel to the nationwide broadcast by his Excellency, Mr. Muhammadu Buhari -President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on review of the Civic-19 situation in the country and the directive to extend the state lockdown for another 14 days, it is hereby notified for general information that Mr. Governor has directed all offices in the secretariat, Alausa, as well as other government establishments statewide remain closed for another 14-day period with effect from 11pm on Monday, 13th April, 2020; in line with the President’s directive.” The HoS further stated that all hospitals and other frontline responders in the management and control of the Pandemic remain excluded from the lockdown, as well as all essential services. While recognising and appreciating the dedication of all state officials, Medical/Health workers, logistics or relief support workers, as well as on-line education providers in the frontline battle against the pandemic, the HoS said, “For those not directly involved, keep on spreading the message, stay safe and practice personal hygiene. It is believed that our collective effort will yield the desired result, as this too shall pass,” he said. The HoS directed the Accounting Officers to take note of the circular and give it the state-wide publicity it deserves.