The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Lagos State, Mr. Deji Doherty has reacted to an incident which allegedly occurred in Alimosho and Ifako Ijaiye Local Government Areas of the state, where bandits are said to have started robbing residents and looting shops owned by hard working individuals in the community following the COVID-19 induced lockdown on the state. While expressing sadness over the development, Doherty said, “I am unhappy, but not surprised about the development. The insincerity of the current administration towards the welfare of the citizens is bearing a bitter fruit. I am sure the governor knows that our restless and unemployed youths will definitely take over the streets and their neighbourhoods if their palliatives do not get to them urgently.” COVID-19: Anambra Speaker gives hope, calls for calm “A few days ago, I wrote an open letter where I warned the state governor of my observation concerning the distribution of the palliatives given to the state by the Federal Government which was hijacked by leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Even though the governor acknowledged this and admitted that the process had failed, his administration has not taken appropriate steps to correct it. In fact they only compounded the existing hunger and frustration already present in these unengaged youths. “The government in a rookie like fashion displayed a lack of awareness when it ordered the lockdown without considering how the large numbers of informal sector workers would be able to meet their daily needs. How would a taxi driver, or a mechanic or electrician or hairdresser or shop owner or bricklayer who cannot work pay bills or feed their families? “The state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu needs to get rid of the bad elements both in his administration and within the APC who are involved in the palliative process, especially those that are only interested in milking the state dry and taking advantage of this crisis period to exploit the vulnerability and urgency of the Covid19 pandemic and use the opportunity to deprive the people of the state of the much needed palliatives. “The government should know that the COVID-19 cases recorded so far definitely show that the pandemic hasn’t reached its peak and might be far from it and can only imagine what another month or two of a lockdown will look like.” Doherty therefore advised the Lagos State government to rethink the strategy and sincerity in the whole process and reappraise the situation with a view to ensuring that the lockdown has all the ingredients for success.