The Senator representing Benue South Senatorial District, Senator Abba Moro and the member representing Shomolu constituency 02 at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Rotimi Abiru have felicitated with Christian faithful in their constituencies and Nigeria at large, on the occasion of the celebration of Easter. Moro asked Nigerians, particularly Christians, to use the occasion, which commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, to show love and tolerance for each other despite the global COVID-19 pandemic. Obiano’s wife calls for spiritual reawakening, family bonding According to a statement by his Special Assistant on media, Ameh Comrade Godwin, the parliamentarian also enjoined Christians to use the Easter celebration to cry to God to take away the deadly Coronavirus ravaging the world. The Senator implored leaders at all levels to imbibe “the qualities of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ, whose sacrifice for mankind is being celebrated.” He encouraged Christians not to give up in spite of the global pandemic, but to continue to seek God’s face while observing the precautionary measures advised by medical experts. In a message to his Bariga constituents, Lagosians and Nigerians as a whole, Abiru noted that “Overtime, mankind has always overcome its limitations, I believe therefore, that we shall overcome this present challenges.” The lawmaker appealed to Lagos residents and Nigerians generally not to see this Covid-19 global pandemic as the end of life. “It is a phase in our life which we shall surely, overcome,” Abiru assured. The Parliamentarian urged Nigerians especially, the Christians to demonstrate the love of Christ who offered Himself as a sacrifice to humanity and pray for the nation at this difficult time. The Lagos lawmaker also called for prayers for people infected with Covid-19, “our leaders and the country at large”, urging everyone to love their neighbors and assist the vulnerable irrespective of differences in tribes and religion while also forgiving not just friends, but enemies. Abiru wishes the people of Bariga, Lagosians and Nigerians as a whole happy Easter Celebration.