Moved to provide reprieve to Lagosians from the negative impact created of Coronavirus pandemic, one of the leading experiential and brand activation companies in Nigeria, Communication Facilitators Limited recently distributed food items to three hundred families in Ogba and Shanginsha areas of Lagos state. The food items distribution, which took place at Oshola area of Ogba and Shanginsha area of Magodo over the recently, witnessed relevant community development areas leadership supervising the sharing of the items amidst compliance to social distancing guideline and use of personal protective gears. Speaking on the initiative, the chief executive officer/managing director of Communication facilitators Limited, Mr Adewole Ayara said, the company is giving back to the society at this time to help relieve the government of huge responsibility it is facing. “We have realised the difficulties people are going through at the time especially, in terms of getting basic food items. We believe this will go along way for these 300 families,” adding that “We chose Oshola and Shanginsha because these are two possible areas we can obviously attend to at this time,” he said. Speaking further on why the organisation is giving back at this time, the director of administration, Communication Facilitators Limited, Mrs. Felicia Ayara said, “The society at large is going through huge difficulties as a result of COVID-19 pandemic. Families are unable to feed due to lockdown hence this initiative,” she stated. Bangladesh extends shutdown until May 5 as death toll rises This is a little way we can contribute to help the effort of the government at curbing the spread this dreaded virus, Mrs. Ayara said. The chairman of the Irepodun Community Development Area Shanginsha, Mr. Orebanwo Olushola thanked organisation for coming to the area to activate its corporate social responsibility. “We are very grateful and we want to thank the company for coming here to ease the difficulty people are going through at this time.” One of the beneficiaries at Oshola area Ogba, Mrs. Abibat Adedokun urged government at all levels and other corporate organisations to emulate Communication Facilitators Limited in order to ensure the food items and other palliatives get to those there are meant for. “I will like to thank those behind this and at the same time tasked government and other companies to follow in the path of this company so that the food items will get to the destination there is meant for,” she said.