Lagos state Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday unveiled a 70-bed COVID-19 isolation and treatment centre located within the premises of Landmark Exhibition Centre in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the state. The 70-bed Eti-Osa Isolation Centre, which was constructed by the Young President Organisation (YPO), Lagos state chapter, has a dedicated 10-bed intensive care isolation unit, four ventilators, monitors, respirators, mobile x-ray, ultrasound and oxygen facilities. Sanwo-Olu, speaking at the commissioning, said the facility will provide additional capacity to support the already existing isolation facilities in the state, adding that the birth of the facility signifies a working and fruitful collaboration between the public and private sector. He explained further that the unveiling of the facility is a clear demonstration and commitment of the present administration to an all-inclusive system of governance. “What we have seen here today is another demonstration of public-private partnership collaboration between the state government and a consortium, the Young President Organisation which is peopled by a crop of professionals from different  fields coming together to fund this laudable project,” the governor said. While commending YPO for the project, Sanwo-Olu said the facility has been taken over by the state government, but will be operated in collaboration with the organisation. He expressed satisfaction at the level of preparedness of the medical professionals who will work at the facility, stressing that it is ready to commence patient admission. “We have taken over this facility but it will be operated in collaboration with the private sector. I am happy with the level of preparedness I have seen. “I am happy with the level of professional staff that will be operating this facility. This facility is ready to go and I am sure either today or tomorrow we will start admitting people into this facility,” Sanwo-Olu said. Earlier, the Lagos state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo coordinated the signing of a memorandum of understanding on the operation and management of the facility between the Lagos state government, represented by the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi and representative of YPO, Tatiana Mousalli. 80 clinical and non-clinical staff including doctors and nurses and intensive care professionals who have been trained on infection prevention and control as well as COVID-19 case management will work at the facility. Also present at the event were the Lagos state Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola; Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso and Permanent Secretaries in the Ministry of Health, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye and Health Service Commission, Dr. Muyiwa Eniayewun.