What we eat can have a huge impact on our mood and emotional health. This has been corroborated by findings of a team of researchers. The established a clear link between depression and diet. They found that the more junk food teenagers ate, the more likely they were to be depressed. Regularly consuming heavily processed foods that are high in sugars and saturated fats and low in nutrients such as B vitamins, zinc and magnesium, can have a negative impact on your emotional health. Eating certain “feel-good” foods, however, as part of a well-balanced, wholesome diet, helps support healthy nerve and brain function as well as promoting the production of mood-boosting neurotransmitters. Below are foods that can make you feel good inside and out. Egg: Eggs provide high quality protein they’re filling, delicious, and studies have shown that eggs can help you feel full when you include them in your meals versus carbohydrate-rich —like starchy, or sweet — meals. Eggs contain tryptophan and tyrosine- two amino acids which have great antioxidant properties. Tryptophan is important as it is converted into melatonin in the pineal gland, which benefits sleep. Berries: Fruit is nature’s candy, like fresh apples and fresh berries. These are two things that people love, because they have a lot of water, stimulate taste buds, and are easily digestible. Each individual, tasty berry has its own unique nutritional values and functional benefits. Supercharge your diet and maximize berry health benefits by enjoying the entire berry patch. Chicken soup: chicken soup is the perfect example, it is the universal warm healthy food. People always feel good after eating chicken soup especially when it is prepared with enough pepper, so supercharge your diet with chicken soup. Oats and oatmeals: Oats provide complex carbohydrates that are slowly digested and provide the brain and entire central nervous system with their key source of fuel. Carbohydrates also play a key role in creating serotonin, a neurotransmitter in the brain that helps regulate mood, appetite and sleep. Suggested serving size: ½ cup to 1 cup cooked, or 1-2 packets instant oatmeal with no sodium added. Avocados: Avocado is high in omega-3 fatty acids and other essential vitamins and minerals. They’re also higher in protein than other fruits. Avocados are really creamy, and the texture is so inviting. A lot of people don’t realize how healthy they are. You can even swap it for butter in some recipes. Or, you can puree avocado and add to salad dressing. Hummus: Suggested serving size: four tablespoons. “Hummus is a great source of protein and fiber, but what are you eating it with? If you’re eating hummus with tons of pita bread, that’s a problem. But try dipping jicama, carrots; it’s a great carrier for veggies. Yogurt: Yogurt is often included on healthy food lists… and for good reason. Yogurt is highly nutritious and is an excellent source of protein, calcium and potassium. It provides numerous vitamins and minerals and is relatively low in calories. Nuts and seeds: Nuts and seeds are super healthy and most of us aren’t eating enough of them. They are a great natural source of vitamins, minerals, protein, fat, and fiber. There are different varieties of nuts that u can eat to make you feel good such as walnuts, pecans, almonds, Brazil nuts, etc. Tea: A cup of tea is low-calorie and it gives you that comfort and sometimes it’s a speed bump to have high calorie foods. Suggested serving size: 1 cup.