…Urges Landlords to be more considerate with tenants The Senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, Senator Uche Ekwunife, has condemned the reported killing at Nkpor by officers of the Nigeria Police Force. In a statement, Ekwunife expressed shock over reports of the killing of unarmed citizens by men of the Nigeria Police who were said to be enforcing the State government’s lockdown order. Her words: “It is with disbelief that I received the reports of the death of two youths during an incident which occurred at Nkpor New Tyre, where a police team went to enforce the State government’s lockdown order”. “While we encourage citizens to obey the government and stay at home, it is completely counterproductive and most condemnable for lives to be lost while attempting to keep citizens safe during this time the country and the world at large are facing a huge health challenge”. Continuing, she said: “This is indeed a trying time for us all. The health and economic challenges brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic have put pressure on citizens and institutions of government, however, we must not lose our heads during this time when there is an urgent need for cooperation and understanding between institutions of government and citizens in the fight against this pandemic which is ravaging our world today”. Senator Ekwunife urged the Nigeria Police and other law enforcement agencies to approach the enforcement of the government’s lockdown with the highest form of professionalism, particularly at this time when most citizens are experiencing difficulties due to the economic challenges thrown up by this ugly pandemic. While sympathising with the families of the deceased, the Senator advised citizens of the state to see the need to obey the current extraordinary regulations the government has put in place to contain the spread of this deadly virus. She called for proper investigations to ascertain the cause of the incident for the sake of justice and forestallment of future occurrence of such ugly incident. In another development, Senator Ekwunife has urged landlords to be more considerate with tenants during this period. She said this while reacting to the recent extra 14 days lockdown declaration and enforcement by the Government of Anambra State. Speaking in a three minutes video, the Senator urged citizens of Anambra State to support the government in its efforts to ensure that the coronavirus is contained in the state. Her words: “As difficult as it may seem, the measures deployed by government both at the State and the Federal level have become necessary as our country and the world at large battle to contain the spread of Covid-19. “While I am aware that this lockdown will impact heavily on our economy, particularly the poor and the vulnerable, I encourage us to take the necessary steps as advised by the government and healthcare professionals to ensure that the disease does not spread in our state”. Continuing, she said: “This is a time when we must support each other. While those of us in government do our best, within our limits, to provide palliatives to citizens, we urge everyone who is in a position to assist a neighbour, a friend or relation, to do so, particularly at this time”. “Landlords who own rented apartments should kindly be more considerate with their tenants during this period. This is a time when we must show love without boundaries”. Concluding, the Senator called for support and prayers for healthcare workers. She prayed for the quick recovery of all those who are suffering from one disease or other,“that God in his infinite mercies grants them divine healing from all their infirmities”.