The  Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has said  that it has recorded 114 new cases of the coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. In a tweet on Friday night, the NCDC said that with the new cases Nigeria now had 1095 confirmed cases of COVID-19 Also of the 114 new cases of COVID-19 reported; 80 are in Lagos, 21 in Gombe, 5 in FCT, 2 in Zamfara, 2 in Edo, 1 in Ogun, 1 in Oyo, 1 in Kaduna and 1 in Sokoto Of the 1095 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported in Nigeria  208  patients have been discharged and 32 people have died so far. The NCDC also said as at 11:30 pm 24th April: Lagos has 657 cases,  FCT-138, Kano-73,  Ogun-35, Gombe-30, Katsina-21, Osun-20, Edo-19, Oyo-18, Borno-12, Kwara-11, Akwa Ibom-11, Kaduna-10, Bauchi-8, Delta-6, Ekiti-4, Ondo-3, Rivers-3, Jigawa-2, Enugu-2, Niger-2, Abia-2, Zamfara-2, Sokoto-2, Benue-1, Anambra-1, Adamawa-1 and Plateau-1 More so  the Lagos State government on Friday announced the discharge of 10 more Coronavirus patients, having tested negative twice for the virus. One thing COVID-19 has not been able to do is knock out our spirit as Nigerians – NCDC DG Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, in a statement, said that the number of discharged patients from the isolation centres in the state was now 117. ”My dear Lagosians, I am happy to inform you that 10 more COVID-19 patients; three females and seven males including three foreign nationals, two Indians and one Filipino have been discharged from Yaba isolation facilities and Onikan to reunite with the society. ”The patients, three from Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba and seven from Onikan Isolation Centre were discharged today having fully recovered and tested negative for COVID-19 in two consecutive test readings. ”With this, the total number of cases successfully managed and discharged from our isolation facilities has risen to 117. ”What this shows is that as the number of confirmed cases rise, we are also maintaining a significant discharge rate of our active cases. ”This unequivocally shows that our medical interventions and management of the cases are working,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor, also COVID-19 Incident Commander, said that he was encouraged by the support received so far from the good citizens of the state in the battle against COVID-19. He urged the residents not to relent, but continue keeping faith and trusting that the war was a must win. ”Remember to practie hand hygiene, join our #MaskUpLagos campaign by using a facemask, especially when outdoor, and do not forget to observe strictly the Social Distancing principle. ”Together, we can break the chain of transmission #ForADiseaseFreeLagos, #ForAGreaterLagos,” Sanwo-Olu said. In Ekiti a 29- year-old pregnant woman, who died in the state on Wednesday as a result of complications arising from the COVID-19, had been buried according to Islamic rights. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, made this known in Ado Ekiti on Friday while giving an update on the Covid- 19. He said the deceased was buried in Ado Ekiti by the government and the family in strict compliance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation on coronavirus casualties. ” The young woman has been buried according to Islamic rites and the government of Ekiti State will liaise with the family on how to raise the surviving baby,” he said. The commissioner said the private hospital where the dead woman was first operated upon leading to the infection of the doctor now in isolation had been shut by government. The commissioner also directed private hospitals intending to treat COVID-19 patients to register in line with the directive of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. Yaya-Kolade further spoke on the current statistics of index cases of coronavirus in the state, saying “as of now, we have only recorded four cases; we have one active, one dead, two discharged cases.” Earlier, Prof. Bolaji Aluko, the Director General, Office of Strategic Transformation and Delivery and member of the State Response Team, said commuters who wanted to forcefully enter the state were being arrested and quanratined at their own expense or sent back at the borders. ” For this period of lockdown, corpses will not be allowed into Ekiti since there is no way we can verify the cause of the death. ” All corpses must be stopped at the borders and this we have conveyed to security (agents),” he said. 