The month of Ramadan is the ninth month in the Islamic calendar observed by the Muslims globally as the month of fasting. It is advisable to take dates during Iftar as the second thing after water. READ ALSO: Eating tomatoes helps to fight prostate cancer-Expert Dates is a natural healer gotten from dates palm tree,    It is a single stone fruit with edible flesh that is relished by both young and old. Here is why you shouldn’t break your fast without a date. 1. Energy Booster: Dates are a perfect energy boosting snack . A serving of power-packed dates contains 31 grams of carbohydrates, making them a powerhouse of energy. Carbohydrates include 3 grams of dietary fiber and 29 grams of naturally occurring sugars such as fructose, glucose and sucrose to provide quick energy and are readily used by the body. 2.Treatment of Anaemia: Anaemia is characterized by unusually low quantity of red blood cells in the human body and is caused by the deficiency of iron. Dates contain an impressive level of iron which makes them the perfect home remedy for treating iron deficiency. Consumption of dates on a regular basis can greatly boost the amount of iron in the blood. The high level of iron not only balances out the inherent lack of iron in anaemic patients but also increases strength and vitality 3.Prevents Abdominal Cancer:Abdominal cancer includes stomach cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer and bowel or colorectal cancer. Research has shown that dates work to reduce the risk and impact of abdominal cancer. 4.Promoting Digestive Health, Relieving Constipation – Fiber is essential for promoting colon health and making for regular bowel movements. The insoluble and soluble fiber found in dates help to clean out the gastrointestinal system, allowing the colon to work at greater levels of efficiency. Some other benefits relating to fiber and colon health are reduced risks of colitis, colon cancer, and hemorrhoids. 5.Sexual Weakness: Studies have shown that dates are even beneficial for increasing sexual stamina. Soak a handful of dates in fresh goat’s milk overnight, then grind them in the same milk with a mixture of cardamom powder and honey. Dates can also be blended with tiger nuts for sexual stamina. This mixture becomes a very useful tonic for increasing sexual endurance and reducing sterility caused by various sexual disorders