The Zamfara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has arrested three persons suspected to be informants and food suppliers to notorious armed bandits in the state. The bandits are believed to be among those terrorising
inhabitants of Bagega District in Anka Local Government Area. A statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the
Command, Aminu Ismail, said on Friday in Gusau that the suspects were
apprehended by officers on surveillance patrol along Bagega town. It added that they were apprehended on April 18, 2020
after a credible intelligence report was received. He said that the report disclosed the suspicious movement
of the suspects from Anka to Tsuru-Kuru-Kuru forest in Bagega District. According to him, the suspects were paraded to newsmen in Gusau by the State NSCDC Commandant, Aliyu Alhaji-Garba, on Friday. COVID-19: Facebook expands information centre to 24 African countries He named the suspects to include Shafiu Abdullahi, 40,
Binta Husaini, 20, and Balki Husaini, an 18-year-old girl, who claimed to be from
Madawa in Kwanni, Niger Republic. He said that during investigation, Abdullahi, one of the
suspects, was discovered to have been assisting a suspected notorious cattle
rustler and kidnapper in the state. “Our investigation revealed that the suspected informant
is allegedly supplying food items, drinks and other social services to bandits
from Anka town at their various hideouts. “We also discovered that the two other female suspects,
Binta and Balki, are girl friends to the notorious bandits in the state,” the
statement said. He said that a motorcycle, some soft drinks and
condiments were recovered from the suspects. “Preliminary investigation have been completed and the
command will soon hand over the suspects to other sister agencies for further
investigations,” he explained. In a related development, the command has also arrested
two suspects in connection with the theft of a Ram behind Uthaimin Jumu’at
Mosques, Gusau. According to the official, investigation into the case is
ongoing. The statement quoted the NSCDC boss as appealing to the
general public to be vigilant and report any suspicious movements within and
outside their localities to the nearest security station.