Akwa Ibom state government has announced the death of another victim of coronavirus pandemic while three new positive cases have been recorded within the last two days in the state. Addressing a press conference at Government House in Uyo on Thursday, Governor Udom Emmanuel said the new death has increased the number of Akwa Ibom people who have lost their lives through the dreaded virus. Governor Udom confirmed that the state has six positive cases of COVID-19 and explained that three new cases recorded were tracked through ongoing contact tracing in the state. “On the last laboratory test we conducted on 44 suspected cases, three persons were confirmed positive, while we lost one. “The patient we lost was a 68-year-old woman who was transferred to the centre, totally unconscious with multiple serious long outstanding comorbidity. “And I want to use this opportunity to appeal to doctors please, whether it is COVID-19 or not, once the illness is beyond what your experience and facility can carry, seek the help of your colleagues. “We would not accept cases of dumping any longer. A situation where you bring a patient with total unconsciousness, and few hours later, the person would just give up the ghost, we won’t accept that any longer!” he cautioned. Governor Udom however, reported that the state has recorded remarkable successes in terms of treatment of minor symptoms. “Our recovery rate is remarkable. Only God can help the entire world,” he said. He reiterated the determination of the state government to continue to provide the state with excellent medical care and encouraged residents to continue to follow all necessary preventative measures. He announced restrictions of passenger’s traffic to the state, adding that ban on inter-state transport services has not been lifted and warned that anyone caught, would be detained for 14 days. “No passenger movement. No motor park should load or offload, else we would keep you for 14 days. Except those on essential services such as medicals, foodstuffs and media,” he said.