Promos Medical team under 100% quarantine, says Chinese envoyLeadership of the House of Representatives on Friday expressed displeasure over the inhuman treatment meted out on Nigerians by the Chinese authorities in Beijing. House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, expressed the sentiment
said at a meeting of the House leadership with the Chinese Ambassador to
Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian. He declared that the inhuman treatment of Nigerians in
China must be addressed forthwith and further went ahead to confront the
ambassador with the protest video of the incidence where a Nigerian was seen
challenging Chinese officials over their inhumane actions. At the meeting, which had in attendance the Minority
Leader, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu and Deputy Minority Leader, Rep. Toby Okechukwu, the
speaker said viral media reports/videos from Beijing showed Nigerians being
forced out of their houses and hotels, rounded up and their passports seized by
the Chinese police. The viral videos also showed that some Nigerians were
being forced into another 14-day quarantine after the initial 14 days they
spent for same purpose over the COVID-19 pandemic in China. The speaker said there should be an official explanation
by the host country for treating Nigerians in such a manner. While asking the Chinese ambassador if he has taken up
the issue with his home country, the speaker said: “If the diplomatic
relationships between our two countries are for the mutual benefits of our
citizens, then there must be respect for our citizens and we should not
compromise it. “As a government, we will not allow the Chinese or
other nationals to be maltreated just as we will not allow Nigerians to be
maltreated in other countries. “The way you treat your citizens, we expect that’s how you’ll treat others. We will not tolerate our citizens breaking your laws, but the crime of one citizen cannot be used to stigmatize the whole country. WHO confirms fresh case of Ebola in DRC after 52 days “It appears that’s what happened in this case. You
can’t use one brush to smear the whole wall. Whatever the reason, it cannot be
used and taken out on the entire community in China.” Responding, Ambassador Pingjian said though he has not
been officially informed about the details of the incidence, but that he would
take it up with his home government. “We take our relationship with Nigeria very
seriously. Until we receive a full report from back home, I cannot act, but I
can assure you it is not a policy issue. “We treat everyone equally, but during the
implementation of the COVID-19 measures in China, it is possible for some
incidents; all I do is to take it back home, today I will,” he said. Also, the speaker sought to understand the specific
mandate of the Chinese medical team that arrived Nigeria on Wednesday and if
they are on quarantine. The envoy said the Chinese medical personnel are in full
quarantine and ready to observe all protocols as stipulated by Nigeria. “They are on 100 per cent quarantine. The NCDC has
been there twice; they have to follow the protocol. “They are here to deliver medical supplies and on
advisory role only, that is a prevention working group on COVID-19. They will
do nothing like practicing as doctors,” he said.