On the occasion of this year’s Easter, Benue state Governor, Samuel Ortom, has urged the people to pray for the state, Nigeria and the entire world for a speedy end to the coronavirus pandemic. Gov. Ortom admonished all Christians and Muslims to pray and seek the intervention of Almighty God in the fight against COVID-19 which is ravaging parts of the globe. He stated that with God, nothing is impossible, as contained in the book of 2 Chronicles 7:14: “If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land.” Gov. Ortom said the death and resurrection of Jesus should draw his followers closer to God so that they can appreciate the abundant grace and mercy of God upon their lives, urging people to eschew bitterness and differences, unite and show love to one another at this trying moment in human history. He urged families to mark this year’s Easter celebration indoors, to avoid coming in close contact with others, in line with the directive on social distancing. The governor equally stressed the need for people to adhere to hand washing, use of sanitizers and other preventive measures against COVID-19. A statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase quotes the governor as saying that “owing to increasing cases of the virus in the country, it is in the best interest of all Benue people that the closure of public places such as markets and worship centres as well as the 7pm to 6am curfew continue, with the assurance that government’s assessment of the situation will determine the next line of action.” He said though the measures taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the state are painful, the approach is necessary as the sacrifice that must be made by all. The governor stated since no fresh case of the disease has been found in Benue, it is important for people to continue to support the action committee on COVID-19 in ensuring that the state remains safe. The governor condemned the attack on Jootar in Ukum Local Government Area by suspected militants which led to the loss of lives as security has been beefed up in the area to curb further conflict. He also said security operatives have been directed to apprehend those fomenting trouble at Tyo-Mu in Makurdi Local Government Area, thanked Benue people for their support and commended security agencies for the successes recorded in enforcing the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law.