The Federal government has charged contractors working with ministries to deviate from pursuing money and focus on delivering value while executing projects awarded to them. The permanent secretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Abdulkadir Mua’zu said this on Thursday in Abuja, during an interactive meeting with project contractors under the Ministry’s Department of Rural Development. Breaking: FG declares ‘operation Amotekun’ illegal He said the
interactive meeting was scheduled to sensitize contractors for the 2019
projects on the need to ensure value for money on all infrastructure contracts
of the ministry. He lamented
that due to the poor quality of project executions being experienced in
previous works, it has become obvious that every rural projects from the
agriculture ministry are usually executed poorly. He said,
‘’contractors nowadays no longer pay strict adherence to quality and standard
of project delivery, terms and conditions of contracts, timely submission of
all the necessary and required documents according to the contracts
specifications and employment of the services of qualified and experienced
personnel for proper contract execution. ‘’contractors
should not get contracts for the sole purpose of being paid but to add and
deliver value that will commensurate to the resources available in the
Ministry. ‘’They may
be challenges that may hinder your work but understand there is a need to provide
good resources to the people. ‘’ As you are privileged to get contracts, the
ministry wants you to execute it based on the contract agreements and
specifications. He warned
that contractors should not accept contracts that the government cannot pay,
however, contracts will be paid if it is satisfactorily delivered based on
specification. He urged
that these issues should be addressed so that Nigerians will enjoy the
dividends of democracy for increased agricultural productivity and other
economic activities in the rural communities. While
appreciating the efforts of the presidency for the approval of the Ministry’s
budget allocation, he tasked the contractors to improve on their services and
judiciously deliver their projects properly. Explaining
the importance of the sector to the economy of Nigeria, he urged the
contractors to align with these goals to ensure that the agricultural sector
achieve their goals and contribute to the economy. Earlier
speaking, the Director of the Department of Rural Development, Engr. Daniel U.
Udo also charged the contractors to set standard of quality for themselves and
avoid project abandonment. He added that quality and standard of project delivery, terms and conditions of contracts, supervision, and timely submission of all the necessary documents should be strictly adhered.