As Father Mbaka charges Nigerian to learn to fear God The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the March 9, 2019 elections conducted in Imo State, Senator Ifeanyi Araraume has said that since the supreme Court, the highest court in the land has delivered its judgement, he has no option that to accept the judgment which ousted Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, the of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and affirmed Senator Hope Uzodinma, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the duly elected governor of Imo in good faith. While congratulation Uzodima in a statement he personally signed on his emergence as Governor of Imo State, Araraume promised to work harmoniously with the new governor in the overall interest of the Imo people. It will be recalled that Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry had prophesied that Sen. Hope Uzodima, the governorship candidate of the APC, in Imo State, during the last election will emerge governor of the state. Mbaka predicted that Senator Hope Uzodinma, will take over from Emeka Ihedioha as Imo Governor in 2020. The Supreme Court had on Tuesday sacked Gov Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP, and declared Uzodinma as the Governor of Imo State. It, therefore, ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to withdraw the certificate of return from former Governor Emeka Ihedioha and issue same to Uzodinma. Araraume, however, appealed to all his teeming supporters in the state to support the new governor in his enormous task to provide dividends of democracy to the doorsteps of the people. Meanwhile, Rev. Fr. Mbaka, has said that the apex court’s judgement has again vindicated him as a true prophet of God. Reacting to the verdict which was according to his earlier prophesy, even though he was critisised severally for the daring prophesy which turned to be true following thes Supreme Court verdict, the Catholic Priest said it should be a lesson for the people to learn to fear God. In a statement by his spokesman, Maximus Ugwuoke, in Enugu the priest said the people should not only learn to fear God, but also respect His servant whenever he says “Thus says the Lord”. According to him, “We are not all gifted alike; Fr Mbaka’s prophetic gift should be a source of pride for the Catholic Church and indeed all true Christians as a living evidence of divine presence within the church. “As a lawyer, I tell you that there are double-fold angles to this miracle. One is the miraculous resuscitation of Hope Uzodimma from the far away position he was placed in the election result announced by INEC in Imo State. The second is the unanimous confirmation of the seven justices of the Supreme Court (without a dissent view) that Uzodimma was the rightful winner of the election. “Fr Mbaka had at all times been consistent in his insistence of God’s revelation to him of Hope Uzodimma as Imo governor even before his 31st December night message and before Uzodimma’s appeal to the Supreme Court. Uzodimma; becoming the governor of Imo was just a part of the about 40 prophetic prayers Fr Mbaka made on the 31st December night. But that became the only issue people satanically picked against him. “Today, again God has vindicated Fr. Mbaka as He has always done for Fr Mbaka and adoration ministry in all the battles, vituperations and attacks the ministry had faced in the past. To God be the glory.”