Lagos state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has ordered a full scale investigation into the cause of the fire incident which gutted the popular Amu Plank Market  located in Mushin area of the state destroying 11 houses and goods worth over N10 billion. The governor, who stated this when he visited the market accompanied by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat and other cabinet members lamented the huge losses recorded in the wake of the market inferno. He said relevant government agencies have been mobilised to take inventory of the situation and report back to the state government. The governor said that “this is a rather very unfortunate incident; nobody ever imagined this amount of destruction to happen in this market. We will also start full investigation into the remote causes of this fire incident so that we can plan in future how to forestall incidents like this. “After the Lagos state Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and other agencies have finished their physical process, we will come back with the Ministry of Physical Planning to take inventory of the various store owners in this place and also sit with market leaders to see what kind of lasting solution that we can bring about in markets like this. “We will do enumeration of the houses affected by the fire incident. Then the government will go back and see what support it can render. We thank God that it is only goods that were lost; no life was lost because we cannot equate the life of anybody to any amount of goods and services.” Read Also: Adamawa United come from behind to beat visiting Kwara United Gov. Sanwo-Olu allayed the fears of the traders that the state government will take over the market, assuring that the government will help to rebuild the market. The traders appealed to the governor to support them to go back to their businesses and help in rebuilding the burnt market. Our correspondent reports that the inferno, which started Saturday midnight was said to be the first major fire incident in the popular timber market, in which no life was lost.