President Muhammadu Buhari’s aide on Social Media has said that: ‘the sinful Nigerian opposition is forever looking for sins to pin on @MBuhari’ #HananBuhari#richculture#heritage#nigerianairforce#PAF pic.twitter.com/NSzcFqKmrX Recalled that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had said that President Muhammadu Buhari directly abused his office and exhibited the worst form of corruption by detailing the officially restricted Presidential jet to chauffeur his daughter, Hanan, reportedly, for her private photography event in Bauchi state. The party in a statemnent on Saturday said  Hanan use of the Presidential jet  was provocative, condemnable, completely improper and an unpardonable slap on the sensibility of millions of Nigerians, particularly, the youths, who look up to Mr. President for integrity, uprightness and respect for rules. The PDP also said that the development is a strong pointer to the recklessness that pervades the Buhari Presidency and the indefensible annexation of our national assets and resources for illegal private use. PDP further insisted that President Buhari  should apologize to Nigerians, rather than resulting into  arrogance and falsehood in trying to justify the inexcusable. The PDP also asked  Buhari not to  forgot that it is public knowledge that the Presidential fleet can only be authorized for use by the President, the First Lady, Vice President, Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, former Presidents, Presidential delegation and no one else. Moreover, the rules do not grant the President any powers to transfer any paraphernalia of office or privileges of his position to any of his children. The Presidency’s  action is therefore a direct spat on millions of Nigerians who cannot freely ply our highways because Mr. President  and his party the APC, have failed to fix and rid our roads of kidnappers and bandits, who have practically taken over major routes under their despicable watch. The PDP notes that never in the history of our nation has a Presidency exhibited such arrogance, impunity and corruption, adding that the action has further shown that the Buhari Presidency had only been parading and getting away with false integrity. But Buhari aide  Lauretta Onochie reacting to the issues that many have condemned said  ‘sinful Nigerian opposition is forever looking for sins to pin on @MBuhari She went on to say: ‘When they couldnt find one, they went after his wife @aishambuhariFinding non, they went after his children. @zmbuhari, Yusuf and now #HananBuhariAfter Hanan, it will be the grandchildrenContinue! The sinful Nigerian opposition is forever looking for sins to pin on @MBuhariWhen they couldnt find one, they went after his wife @aishambuhariFinding non, they went after his children. @zmbuhari, Yusuf and now #HananBuhariAfter Hanan, it will be the grandchildrenContinue! pic.twitter.com/99wVqFZeKI 