That criticisms have continued to follow the so called prophecy by Rev. Ejike Camillus Mbaka of the adoration ministry Enugu concerning the leadership of Imo State nearly two weeks after, is clear evidence that the clergy’s action is both reckless and condemnable. Mbaka had, in a New Year message stated that the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the 20219 election, Senator Hope Uzodinma, would take over from Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as the governor of the State. Mbaka said that “In spite of all that would happen this year 2020, there is hope. In Imo State, there is hope. Imo people have suffered but God is raising a new hope that would be an agent of salvation for them. “He is coming with a new flag to restore the dignity of that noble land. New leadership will break barriers and there would be joy in the land of Imo. Lift up your candles as I bless Hope Uzodinma and I empower him spiritually to take over. How, I do not know.” Following that ‘predictions’ many have attacked Mbaka, saying his statements were not spiritually provoked as he made them to please the ears of the leadership of the APC, same as he has continued to make since the inception of the current administration. According to others who reacted through the social media, Mbaka was reminded of many other predictions he has made in the past that did not come to pass including but not limited to the re-election bid of former Enugu State governor Chimaroke Nnamani and the one in 2018 when he said that God warned President Muhammadu Buhari not to re-contest his office and later began to support the president when he insisted on running again. In spite of the provocative nature of Mbaka’s predictions, the incumbent Governor of Imo State has remained calm and refused to speak against him. However, the Imo State Commissioner for Information, Felix Ebiliekwe advised Mbaka to face his church work and leave politics alone in order to avoid misleading the people. “Mbaka should face his spiritual calling and leave politics alone. Imo is in safe hands. What the the governor has been able to do in seven months have shown and is very clear to the blind that Imo is being rebuilt. The governor is not disturbed by the priest’s prophecy,” the commissioner stated. But Imolites are not taking the matter as easy as that as many have alleged that Mbaka is APC’s mouthpiece in the South East and was rather saying what his party was planning to use the judiciary execute while hiding under prophecy. The Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria in Imo State, Senior Apostle Godson Ibeji also condemned Mbaka’s prophecy, saying it was politically motivated. He was reported to have said that, “CAN has consistently opposed such politically motivated prophecies and at the same time strives to maintain the standards that guide and regulates the practice of Christianity.” A human rights activists and musician, Charles Oputa popularly known as Charly Boy in the same way, condemned Mbaka for making such statements in the guise of prophecy, describing him as a “useless piece of Sh*t.” In a video that spontaneously went viral, the maverick entertainer who hails from Oguta in Imo State mocked Mbaka saying in corrupted version of English (also called pidgin), “My people abeg, which kain witch dey pursue Reverend Father Mbaka?. Why Catholic Church never sack dat kain man, that fake reverend father?” he asked Continuing Charly Boy said, ”Mak una judge now; Father Mbaka tell us say if (former governor of Enugu State) Chimaroke Nnamani contest (as governor), he (Mbaka) will resign as a priest. Chimaroke contested and won, Mbaka didn’t resign. Yeye rolling. Na dis same Mbaka who tell us say one of the northern governors in PDP will win the 2019 election. Today, we have Buhari in Aso Rock, peppering us; showing us, oh Jesus, pepper! Yet na dis same Mbaka tell us say Buhari no go contest in the 2019 election, (but) Buhari contested and he’s back,” he said, adding that Mbaka may be under the influence of a dubious spirit. He called on Mbaka to leave Imo alone so that the state can move forward. ”Leave Imo people alone. Imo State has been settled. Dem say na Ihedioha be dem own,” he said and called on Governor Ihedioha to focus on good governance rather than distraction. Still on the matter, the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) Imo State chapter, in a statement in Owerri by its state Chairman, Isdore Chukwuemeka, advised Mbaka not to unduly inflame the polity and to leave Governor Emeka Ihedioha alone. “We advise Fr. Mbaka to leave Governor Emeka Ihedioha alone. The youths of Imo State are pleased and satisfied with the ‘Rebuild Imo’ administration. “Governor Ihedioha is barely seven months in office and has aggressively restored all that the locust had eaten in Imo state in the last eight years. We do not want further distractions of the rebuilding process in the State. Where was Mbaka when Imo State was serially raped for eight years by a clueless administration that mindlessly looted the treasury of the State? “He never uttered a word against that evil regime. When darkness reigned in Imo for eight years, Mbaka’s lost his voice,” NYCN said and expressed shock that Mbaka always directed his prophesies to Imo State alone. “We wonder why Fr. Mbaka focuses his prophecies on Imo State alone with such underlying intents, capable of destabilizing the state. We cannot remember when he prophesied on political developments in other States. “We recall how he destabilized Ikedi Ohakim’s administration when he bought hook, line and sinker, the road-side gossip that Ohakim flogged a catholic priest. “In the end, it turned out to be loud hoax but Fr.Mbaka had already built castles on that falsehood and based on it to make injurious proclamations and prophecies against Ohakim prior to the 2011 governorship election.” The Council regretted that Mbaka was mixing politics with religion and warned him not to allow politics misguide into plunging the state into political crisis. “Sadly, in recent times, Mbaka conveys the impression that he is a ‘voice for hire’”, the group lamented. In view of the above, Daily Times hereby align with the people of Imo State and majority of Nigerians that Fr. Camillus Ejike Mbaka and other religious leaders should use their positions to seek spiritual wellbeing of the people rather than aligning with politicians and political parties to sow seed of disharmony among the people. In addition, religious leaders should refrain from partisan politics in order to avoid public ridicules as is the current case of Fr. Ejike Mbaka