A police officer has been killed by  a crowd who brutally attacked him at the at the palace of Chief of Ushafa in Bwari Area  in Abuja on 23rd January, 2020. The Police officer according to reports was killed by some persons  trying to obstruct the police from arresting one aka Dogo, a suspect wanted for Culpable Homicide, The crowd attacked and killed ASP Eric Isaiah at the palace of Chief of Ushafa in Bwari Area  on 23rd January, 2020  according to a statement by DSP Anjuguri Manzah Police Public Relations Officer FCT Police Command Abuja The statement said the Commissioner of Police FCT, CP Bala Ciroma described the act as barbaric and unpatriotic and promised that the killers of the police officer must be arrested and brought to justice. He also warned that the Command will not treat any act of attack on police officers on lawful duty with levity. The unfortunate disregard for law and order happened on 21st January, 2020, when one Dominic Emmanuel ‘m’ reported at Bwari Divisional Headquarters that his brother Moses Emmanuel (now deceased), who was engaged to work as a mason by one Mrs. Priscilla Patrick, was found unconscious after being attacked and severely injured. After he was rushed to Bwari General Hospital for medical attention, the deceased was able to provide vital information as to his assailants. Consequent upon this, one Moses Emmanuel aka Dogo and one John (surname unknown) were fingered as the perpetrators of the act. Lassa fever: FG commends Kano for quick response Unfortunately, the condition of the victim deteriorated and he later gave up the ghost at the hospital, where he was receiving treatment. On the strength of this, the Divisional Police Officer Bwari detailed one Inspector Okpanachi Audu and Sergent John Mark on inquiry to Ushafa village, where the deceased was attacked. The detectives sighted and accosted Moses Peter aka Dogo, who resisted arrest and thereafter invited his friends from a nearby drinking joint who insisted that the suspect must be taken to the Chief of Ushafa palace before the police can effect his arrest. The two police detectives obliged the crowd and went to the chief palace, where they met the secretary to the chief, one Danlami Busa, who assured them that the chief will soon attend to them. However, instead of addressing the issue, the chief’s secretary, Danlami Busa ‘m’ at the instance of the Chief, Alhaji Mohammed Baba ‘m’ incited the crowd, who descended heavily on the two detectives. As a result, a re-enforcement team led by late ASP Eric Isaiah, Patrol and Guard officer Bwari Division, with three others were deployed and they arrived the scene with a police hilux vehicle which was used to rescue the two officers who escaped with the suspect, Moses Peter aka Dogo. Sadly, the crowd brutally attacked and murdered ASP Eric Isaiah in cold blood after inflicting various degree of injuries on other members of the team, who narrowly managed to escape with their lives. In view of this, the Chief of Ushafa, Alhaji Mohammed Baba ‘m’ and his secretary, Danlami Busa ‘m’ have been arrested and are providing the police with useful information regarding the murder of late Moses Emmanuel, late ASP Eric Isaiah and injuries inflicted on the police personnel. Meanwhile, the investigation is on-going. 