The 30th Students Union Government of Lagos State University (LASU) has vowed that the Union Executive would not work for the university management but with it. President of the Union, Abdulbasit Ashade, stated this at the inauguration of the executives popularly known as LASUSU held at the Lagos State University Auditorium, Main Campus, Ojo on Monday. Ashade in his Inauguration speech appreciated the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, whom he described as the God-sent to LASU. He pleaded, amongst other things, that the Management facilitates the timely completion of the Students Arcade. He also requested on behalf of the students for a shuttle bus to help convey students to ease their transportation challenges outside the School campus. In his word to the newly sworn in executives, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, described the day as a special day for him. “I am fulfilled. I am already on my way out; but what you have shown me is that my four years administration so far in this University has not been a waste. “I made up my mind earlier on in my administration that we will make LASU certificate one to be proud of and our graduates will no longer be rejected by organisations”, he said. Prof. Fagbohun said the University is in the database of first tier corporate organisations of institutions where recruitment of graduates is taking place, adding that Ivy-League Institutions are desirous of having a relationship with LASU. “I see many of my colleagues having issues with Students Union. But I tell them: if we say the youths are the leaders of tomorrow, I believe they must be part of the decision-making process from now” he said. The VC reacted to the recent stampede during one of the GNS examinations, saying in times past, one would have seen the management at loggerheads with the Students’ leaders on the issue. “But this time, we have worked together to face the challenge. I make bold to say anywhere I go that wherever something good is happening, you will find a LASU student there”. He said the gains in the last four years would be eroded in one week if care is not taken. “How can you tell me that vices and negative tendencies are the things we should train ourselves to observe and follow? The VC however cautioned the students stand against Marlians and their emulate vices, saying they may end up serving those that are seriously pursuing their goals now. Read Also: Okebukola harps on STEM to propel nation’s economy “We as an institution must extricate ourselves from it. My dear students, you have made certain requests through the president. I assure you that we will continue to give you a voice. Rather than give us ultimatum, engage with us”, he said. The University Registrar, Mr. Olayinka Amuni, announced on behalf of the University Management that a commendation letter will be issued to all members of the immediate past executives.