By Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The Transmission Company of Nigeria
(TCN) has rebuffed the allegation by the national arm of Senior Staff
Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC) which stated that TCN
is yet to remit its N29m Check-off dues. In a statement signed by the TCN General Manager
(Public Affairs), Ndidi Mbah, she noted that the publication was geared towards
inciting staff based on deliberate misrepresentation of information. “The allegation which was published
in some dailies and online media on Monday, 27th January 2020, stated that
outstanding check-off dues that ought to have been paid them by the end of
December 2019, as agreed in a meeting held with TCN, the Union and Minister of
Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, is yet to be paid. “TCN hereby state that the meeting
was held with the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Labour and Employment, not
with the Minister of Labour as was stated in the publication and that check-off
dues to both the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies
(SSAEAC) and Nigerian Union of Electricity Workers (NUEE) have been paid up to
January, 2020. “We further note that at the said
meeting with the Permanent Secretary, an Accounts Reconciliatory Committee was
set up consisting of three TCN staff and three SSAEAC members, to collectively
examine the payment records by TCN and reconcile with SSAEAC records, in order
to determine if there are any outstanding payments due to the Union. This was
duly carried out.” While explaining that TCN usually remits Union Check-off dues within two weeks after salaries are paid, she disclosed that the remittance for SSAEAC after March 2019 payment was suspended due to complaints from Local Chapter of SSAEAC that the percentage of dues due to them from the Check-off dues paid to the national body was not being remitted by SSAEAC national, adding that the suspension was lifted on the directive of the Permanent Secretary. World Cancer Day:Nigeria ranks among countries with poorest cancer care -Mrs Akeredolu “We therefore urge members of the
public and the stakeholders in the power sector to disregard the insinuation of
labour face-off in the company as TCN has fully discharged its obligations by
paying the Union check-off dues to-date. “The company is committed to
expanding the grid and is very sympathetic to issues of staff capacity
development and welfare which is why today, staff of TCN are the most
productive in the power sector. This can be proven by the responsibilities they
undertake, including the installation of most of the over 75 power transformers
installed across the country in less than 3years.”