Prior to the start of the current campaign, many expected Napoli to again provide the main threat to ending Juventus’s strangle hold on the Serie A. However, they are having a very poor season and are sitting down in 11th position at present. This has then left Juventus as the overwhelming favourites to lift their record breaking 36 top flight title and ninth in succession, with the run starting back in the 2011/12 season. They have continued to be well supported by punters using offers at bettingsites.ng but both Inter Milan and Lazio are also having very strong seasons. Onyekuru to resume Galatasaray training next week due to illness Juventus still lead the way at the top of the Serie A and have picked up 48 points from a possible 57, following winning 15, drawing three and losing once. This loss coming through a 3-1 away defeat against Lazio back in December, before again losing to them by the same score in the Italian super cup. Ronaldo picked up the only goal for the champions with Cuadrado also seeing red. This result gave a key indication that Lazio are much improved this season and could yet pose a real threat to Juventus for the title come the end of the campaign. Lazio are sitting in third and are six points off the top of the table but also have a game in hand. This is following them picking up 42 points from a possible 54, and they will now be expected to draw closer with a victory at home against Sampdoria. They have won 13 matches, drew three and lost twice. This is a stark contrast to last season, with the side only able to finish down in eighth. The key difference has been their defence, which now sees them joint top on goal difference. Lazio will be expected to at least qualify for the Champions league and the victory over Juventus shows they could yet go on and land the title. Inter Milan are in second position and are having an incredible season under Antonio Conte. They are just two points behind Juventus, as they go in search of their first top flight title since back in 2010. Inter Milan have also only been beaten once this league campaign, winning 14 matches and drawing a further four. They have the best defence in the division based on statistics and have conceded just 16 goals, on top of scoring 40. If they can continue this run of form, then they are going to pose a real threat to Juventus and could be the side to finally end their winning run. It would appear to be between these sides, as it is then a further seven points back to both Atalanta and Roma in fourth and fifth positions respectively. 