President Muhammadu Buhari has been asked to resign from office having failed in its constitutional redponsibility to provide secutity for the citizenry. Minority Leader of the Senate, Enyinnanya Abaribe, who call his resignation said  President Buhari’s government has displayed incapability to effectively tackle the security challenges bedevilng the country. He stated this on Wednesday in his contribution to the ongoing debate on a  motion on the urgent need to restructure, review and reorganize the current security architecture sponsored by the Leader of the Senate, Abdullahi Yahay. Nigerians react to Adeboye telling his son to fire his secretary to avoid temptation Abaribe noted the that incessant killings of Nigerians has reached unbearable proportions, adding that the best way to solve a problem is to address it from the top He insisted that those who live by propaganda will die by propaganda. He said: “Mr president was expressing surprise but in according to our rules order 53 (13) I will not go into that but I can only say in pidgin English ‘this surprise, surprise me’,” he said. “You have told us that in this solemn day in discussing this matter that we may not at any point be partisan, I want to say Mr president if you didn’t insist that we will not be partisan I’d have called out the presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, who when the CAN leaders complained about the killings of a priest, he turned around and said CAN was acting like a political party. “Boko Haram has been defeated, Nigeria is now safer, everything that was being done to make sure that the hard work that was supposed to be done in securing Nigeria was not done because certain people did not do their work but preferred to cover the eyes of Nigerians with propaganda and trying to find all these excuses for non-performance have now come to state us in the face. “Mr president, Nigeria did not elect the IGP, we did not elect the chief of staff, we did not elect the joint-chiefs or national security adviser, we elected the government of APC in 2015 and re-elected them in 2019. The reason we re-elected them is that they continued to tell us that they had the key to security. “When you want to deal with a matter, you go to the head so we will go to government and ask this government to resign because they can no longer do anything.” At this point Senate President Ahmad Lawan interrupted his submission and said Nigerians re-elected the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019 because they “saw improvement in their lives”. “I don’t want to be partisan and I advice against hate speech,” Lawan said. But Abaribe in concluding his speech on the issue, said: “That government even said if we don’t perform stone us, we are going with the stones to stone them now.”