The House of Representatives member representing Pankshin, Kanke and Kanam Federal Constituency of Plateau state, Rep. Yusuf Gagdi, has condemned the killing of Daciya Dalep, his constituent and student of the University of Maiduguri, by members of the Boko Haram. Rep. Gagdi, in a statement made on Wednesday in Jos, described the incident as “inhuman.” Dalep, a native of Jing in Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau state was abducted two weeks ago by the insurgents on his way to Maiduguri to resume school. But, on Tuesday the insurgents released a video where Dalep was gruesomely executed. “I condemn in the strongest terms, the gruesome execution of Daciya Dalep, a native of Jing in Pankshin and a biology education student of the University of Maiduguri by members of the Boko Haram. “I am devastated by the excruciating loss of this promising young man and more pathetically, in a gruesome manner one could not wish for his archenemy. “This has once again brought to fore the nightmarish experience of people living in the insurgency ravaged north east part of Nigeria,” he said The lawmaker called on governments at all levels to redouble efforts at ending insurgency in the north east and other security threats in other parts of the country. He called on Nigerians to render all the needed support to the security agencies in their quest to end insurgency in the country “This is a call for the need for governments to redouble efforts to stamp out the irresponsible activities of this terrorist organisation. Read Also: Court restrains Enugu LG from conducting OMMATA election “It is most despicable that despite the resources sunk in fighting the insurgency, the nefarious activities of the insurgents fester, and more precious lives continue to perish in a wanton manner “I want to strongly advocate for more logistics and moral support to the security operatives fighting insurgency anywhere in Nigeria,” he advocated. Rep. Gagdi called on the family of Dalep to take his death in good faith and accept the will of God.