The European Commission will propose on Tuesday how the EU can pay for shifting the region’s economy to zero CO2 emissions in 2050 while protecting areas and industries most dependent on coal from taking the brunt of changes aimed at preventing climate change. The commission, the European Union (EU’s) Executive Arm, is to unveil details of its Sustainable Europe Investment Plan to mobilise investment of 1 trillion euros over 10 years using public and private money to help finance its flagship project — the European Green Deal. 5 nations affected by Ukrainian plane crash to discuss legal action against Iran All EU countries except Poland agreed last month they should
transform their economies over the next 30 years to not emit more carbon
dioxide than they absorb, so as to limit global warming and resulting climate
changes. The deal came amid overwhelming support from Europeans who
see irreversible climate change as one of their biggest threats, more so than
terrorism or unemployment. In the only dissent among the 28 European Union countries to
the 2050 emissions-neutrality goal, Poland argued that its energy systems and
economy were too dependent on coal and lignite to make the transition over that
time. To secure Warsaw’s support, the commission is to unveil on
Tuesday the details of how it can help it financially through a Just Transition
Fund that would generate 100 billion euros over seven years to ease the
transition of coal-dependent regions to a “green” economy. The Just Transition Fund is to be a mix of money from the
EU’s long-term budget, loans from the European Investment Bank and the InvestEU
programme, using the principle of leveraging limited public funds to attract
private cash by covering the riskiest parts of an investment. The commission announcement on Tuesday will spell out
eligibility criteria for the funds, which are widely expected to be tilted in
favour of Europe’s most coal- or lignite-dependent regions like Silesia in
Poland. As well as being a huge challenge, the commission sees a
switch to an economic model not based on burning fossil fuels for energy as a
great opportunity for European industry to shift to making environmentally
clean, re-usable and repairable products based on renewable energy sources. “The drivers of climate change and biodiversity loss are
global and are not limited by national borders. The EU can use its influence, expertise and financial resources to mobilise its neighbors and partners to join it on a sustainable path,” the commission said last month. (Reuters/NAN)