Chioma Anjoke started her day as the Vice Chancellor of Caleb University, Imota, Lagos when she was picked up from the staff quarters with the Vice Chancellor’s Official Car and immediately proceeded to the staff morning devotion where she admonished staff from 1 Thessalonians 5:17-21 with the theme – “Instructions for Daily Living”. She told those present that praying daily, not despising prophecies, giving thanks to God always, and not quenching the spirit are essential ingredients for daily living. Interacting with non-teaching staff of the University, she spoke on the ongoing portal upgrade, excellent work ethics, teamwork that will enhance the University core values and on how they can provide quality student support services in line with global standard. Thereafter, she met with some Academic staff of the University to discuss how the institution can impact students positively and discussed matters concerning the recent accreditation and resource verification exercise in some departments. While commending staff and students of the University for their hard work, especially for making 2019 a memorable year, she also encouraged them to work towards a glorious 2020.  The one day Vice Chancellor presented gift items to seven lucky students who were in attendance. At the debriefing session with the Vice Chancellor, members of the Student Representative/Advisory Council, a student asked her, how she felt to be a Vice Chancellor for one day? She responded, saying “The experience, no doubt, was a hands-on managerial exposure which was an epoch-making date for me. It equally gave me an insight into what an average day of the VC looks like – with all its attendant perks, challenges and lots more. It equally gave me something to aspire for, dream about and work towards in my journey as an academician. Read Also: Teaching is one of the noblest of professions – Buhari I am genuinely grateful to the VC and the institution at large for this great opportunity. It is an exposure that will last a life-time,” she concluded. In his remark, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Nosa Owens-Ibie, who initiated the one day Acting Vice Chancellor programme for members of the pioneer set of the Caleb University Graduate Development Scheme, admonished students to always be at their best and utilise opportunities offered by the institution to shine.