In its bid to check the menace of examination malpractice, the National Examinations Council (NECO) has is seeking collaboration with the Department of State Services (DSS). According to the Chairman, Governing Board of NECO, Dr. Abubakar Saddique who led the Acting Registrar and other management staff on a courtesy visit to the DSS headquarters in Abuja, on Thursday such collaboration would ensure the credibility of the Council’s examination. Dr. Saddique explained that the Council has put in place measures aimed at checking examination malpractice, but noted that without adequate security architecture, such measures would not yield the desired results. He stated that among the measures introduced is the biometric capturing of candidates to check impersonation at examination centres. The chairman therefore appealed to the personnel of DSS to strengthen their collaboration with NECO to prevent any form of malpractice before, during and after the conduct of the Council examination. The Acting Registrar/Chief Executive, Abubakar Mohammed Gana, in his remarks, enumerated some reforms introduced under his leadership in the Council to include the development of an intractable, robust, secure and user-friendly corporate website. “The world is experiencing rapid changes resulting from rapid development; these changes revolve around two major phenomena of emerging Technology and Globalization”. ‘’while these two phenomena have their advantages, they also come with disadvantages, especially when abused resulting in the scourge of examination malpractice assuming a global dimension. ‘’The collaboration of DSS in building an intractable will open and secure filing system for the Council to prevent possible incidence of tempering with staff records, especially in the face of the on-going Staff Certificate verification exercise’’, he said. . Read Also: TetFund to construct N500m library at Fed. Varsity Gusau Other reforms include the introduction of full-scale biometric capturing of candidates at examination centres, procurement of an additional 20 pick-up Hilux Vans for examination logistics and full payment of Duty Tour Allowance to staff among others. Gana appealed to the Director-General to ensure that fraudsters who attempt to compromise NECO examinations are not only arrested and investigated but prosecuted to serve as a deterrent to others. The Director-General, Mr. Yusuf Bichi, in his address, pledged the continued support of his Department in ensuring the credibility of NECO Examinations.