Branding is the marketing practice of actively shaping your brand.  It creates a name, symbol or design that is easily identifiable as belonging to the company. This helps to identify a product and distinguish it from other products and services. World’s best 100 CEOs: Why Africans were not recognized Branding is important because not only is it what makes a memorable impression on consumers but it allows your customers and clients to know what to expect from your company. 2019 was a great year that experienced more developments for brands and their consumers, however, brands should learn few lessons from the previous year. Speaking to the Brand Partner of Brandmarks communication limited, Mr Chidi Onwumere in an interview on Tuesday, he advised that brands should focus on delivering their values. He said that values are what strengthen brands and keep them focused, noting that deviating from the usual value and running away from the supposed niche will hinder progress. Onwumere also noted that brands should pay attention to their audience perception and stay true to their character and brand promise. ‘’Creating a narrative from audience perspective should also be developed and applied in this year’s plan and specifically defining purpose should not be overlooked, ’’ he added. Just like Elon Musk, an African-American engineer who dubbed the world’s first “Influencer CEO because of how he delivered his vision, Onwumere urged brands to stay true to their vision and not deviate. ‘’Create a simple, clear value proposition that consumers are not willing to do without,’’ he said. One vital lesson one can learn from Musk is consistency. Musk is always reiterating that his primary focus is the relentless pursuit of developing technology that best serves humanity. He has a vision and a mission that he sticks to, and has earned loyal followers who appreciate his dedication. 2020 is here to welcome more opportunities for brands to deliver and improve more on their niche. In as much as Nigerians expect more innovations and economic growth, the targets, plans and goals mapped out by these brands should be centered on Focusing on their values and objectives.