 Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State has disclosed that the future of the state is predicated on tourism and hospitality. He also stated that the state would henceforth accord priority to allocation of lands for development and economic purpose. Governor Ihedioha disclosed this when he inaugurated the State Tourism Board at the Sam Mbakwe Expanded Executive Council Chambers, Government House, Owerri, on Wednesday. He noted that tourism remained the driving force that would boost economic development of the State. “Imo State has the capacity to take the lead in the tourism sector in the country.  We can make a fortune from this sector and rake in N3 billion monthly to our Internal Generated Revenue, IGR, from the tourism sector alone. “Our vision is to boost tourism in the State, develop an entertainment city and turn Imo State into a tourism destination. We have the potentials, therefore we can achieve it.” He called on members of the Board to explore the sector and give considerable attention to the abundant human resources and tourism potentials in the State. Governor Ihedioha noted that his administration is committed to supporting willing investors particularly those who intend to invest in the tourism sector, by providing land and the enabling environment. “We are ready to work and support those who have ideas to develop our State. We will continue to utilize our potentials to ensure we make appreciable impact in developing our dear State in the next two years. While expressing optimism in the ability of the members of the Board to live up to his charge, he tasked them to strive to make the state number one tourist destination in the country. Chairman of the Board, Charles Anudo his remarks, expressed hope in ensuring the development of the sector to become a major revenue earner for the state. “It is our hope that we shall impact the sector by attracting new investments with a view to creating jobs and actualise the governor’s mandate for the sector.” He expressed gratitude to the governor for finding them worthy to undertake the task, assuring that they will live up to expectations. Members of the Board include Mrs. Ngozi Ngoka, Director General/Secretary; Prof. ABC Duruaku; Chief CMC Onuoha; Paul Onwuanibe; and Chidi Okoro.