A new entrant into the Nigeria aviation industry, Santos Aviation limited is to create employment for hundreds Nigerian youths and reduce capital flight. Engr Isaac David Balami, chief executive of 7-Stars Global hangar disclosed this at the Murtala Mohammad airport Ikeja at the formal unveiling of Santos Aviation in Nigeria by representatives of the United States Federal Aviation Administration officials Balami said the unveiling of Santos aviation, an outfit specialized in aircraft interior furnishing will solve the problem of Nigerian aircraft owners from going abroad to have their aircraft interiors refurbished adding that it will save huge money for the airlines. According to Balami, over S 100, 000 dollars will be saved annually by local airlines when carrying out interior refurbishing locally adding 7- Stars global will work together with Santos aviation to give airlines value for their money with quality sourced materials overseas. “It is a huge relief, it is going to create jobs, it will increase safety and also the comfort of our passengers” Balami noted that with 7-Stars global hangar, working together with Santos Aviation will attract other airlines from other West Africa countries to Nigeria for patronage. He commended the NCAA for being supportive of the project saying that over 50% of aircraft in the country came in from the United States The representative of the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority NCAA Bello Akinola said the coming of Santos Aviation into the country’s aviation sector was a very big business for  Nigerians. Akinola disclosed that out of the 150 private jets in Nigeria about 30 were American registered According Akinola, jet owners always carry out their interior refurbishing in Canada, South Africa and America. “We have facility but only for maintenance. It is a good thing for us in Nigeria, it will save us a lot of money from capital flight.” Read Also: FAAN reopens Port Harcourt Airport for operations Akinola noted that with the company in the country more jobs will be created which will lead to more business for the youths. “We so appreciate it, thanks for 7 star global and Santos for bringing this to Nigeria. For FAA, we have been a partner for long we want to support us too as it has been in the past, so there are many companies too who want to seek FAA approval.” The President of Santos Aviation limited, Segun Adesanya said the company specialized in the provision of maintenance and interior refurbishing services to both government and privately owned aircraft.