Eight suspects allegedly notorious for running illegal Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) registration centres in various parts of Lagos, and selling JAMB forms above the stipulated official price of N4,700 have been arrested by operatives of the Lagos state Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The suspects, Bamiro Oluwaseun, Subairu Adewale, Oshikoya Segun, Victor Faith, Olayinka Oluwashina, Elvis Okorafor, Igwoku Luckson, and Ajetumobi Olufemi were arrested following a tip -off. According to the state NSCDC Commandant, Cyprian Otoibhi, who paraded the suspects before journalists at the command’s headquarters in Alausa, Ikeja, the suspects charged candidates between N6, 500 and N8, 000 or sometimes even higher to register for the examination. Otoibhi said the operation that led to the arrest of the suspects was carried out in conjunction with officials of the JAMB in Lagos state. Speaking during the parade of the suspects on Monday, the commandant said: “The Commandant-General of NSCDC, Alhaji Gana Mohammadu, gave a directive to all state commands to put a stop to what he described as the extortion of JAMB candidates by computer based test operators. “It sould be recalled that the federal government had slashed the cost of JAMB registration to ease the burden on parents and candidates, but it was discovered that some computer based test centre operators were seeking above the government stipulated price of N4, 700, hence their arrest.” Giving details on how the suspects were arrested, he said: “On January 20, 2020, men of NSCDC in a joint operation with officials of JAMB in Lagos state, acting on credible intelligence arrested eight men for selling JAMB forms above the official price. “The suspects run cyber cafes in different areas in Lagos. They charge unsuspecting candidates ranging from N6, 500 and N8, 000 instead of the official rate of N4, 700. These candidates are tricked and manipulated into paying higher than normal and this can be seen as a case of extortion. Read Also: Why JAMB stopped UniAbuja Admissions “So an officer acted undercover disguised as an applicant, stated that the suspects extorted from innocent young Nigerians who are seeking to have a bright education.” But, the prime suspect in the fraudulent act, Ajetumobi Olufemi, denied the allegation, saying that he only charges prospective candidates the extra amount for tutorials and other logistics.