Governor of  Kano state Abdullahi Ganduje has described  former governor Rabiu Kwankwaso as the most selfish person and self centered man he had ever known in his political life. Ganduje made the observation  while delivering an address when he received leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP at Government House as well as troops of the Kwankwasiyya Members that decamped to the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC Wednesday night. READ ALSO:  Edo Govt. empowers 158 poultry farmers Ganduje who spoke at length on his political relationship with his former boss, which dated back to the military era also described how loyal he had been to Kwankwaso. He explained that even the Kwankwasiyya movement was initiated by himself and the decamping PDP chairman Rabiu Sulaiman Bichi to prove dedication to Kwankwaso’s course. “It is natural to be a bit selfish but I have never seen anyone as selfish as Kwankwaso. It was such that he imposed his whims on all and exploit them for his personal benefit as against the collective interest of all” Ganduje stated. “All of us seated here were with him in the past and we made him what he is politically but had to withdraw from his persistent self conceit. Accorrding to him,  after  Supreme Court reaffirmed his victory he called on the opposition to come and join hands to move Kano forward but all Kwankwaso could do to that was to curse everybody for his lack of victory in the legal tossle. In his address, the former Kano PDP chairman, narrated how rough it had been for them under Kwankwaso and  mentioned why they have decided to join the APC. “Following a call by the president to join hands to move the nation forward and the call by the Kano Governor to come and help build a greater Kano, it has become pertinent for us to come and contribute our quota towards the development of the state” he said. We have been forced to remain as opposition for the past 20 years following Kwankwaso even while we were in power, a situation that has not yielded anything good and progressive. “We need a polity where progress and development of the state is ahead of personal whims and desires and so we have to cut that trend of opposition to set the state along the right track of development just like it is in Lagos state. “Your Excellency, all of us you see here joining the APC have decided after due consultation to join in the development of the state. Almost everyone that was in the Kwankwasiyya is with us here except for very few and those who other commitments could not allow them to come.“Among us here are former commissioners, former advisers and others, all of who you have known for long. If we continue along the path of progressive governance, Kano will surely be ahead of other states in the country and we are all here to contribute our quota” Bichi stated. The peak of the event witnessed the decampees replacing their red caps with other colors and designs signifying that they have left not just the PDP but also the Kwankwasiyya movement under Kwankwaso. Prominent among those who decamped to the APC are Hajiya Binta Spikin, Kwankwaso’s spokesperson, Hajiya Aisha Kaita, a zonal Woman Leader of PDP in Kano, Muhammad Isyaku Taraunu former member House of Assembly and Dr Idris Bala a renown Kwankwasiyya leader.