LAGOS –  Cybercriminals are actively abusing the names of artists and songs nominated for a Grammy 2020 award, in order to spread malware. Kaspersky protection technologies detected a 39% rise in attacks (attempts to download or run malicious files) under the guise of nominees’ work in 2019, compared to 2018. Ariana Grande, Taylor Swift and Post Malone were attackers’ favorites, with these nominees’ names used most often in 2019 as a disguise for malware. Music has universal appeal – it is not just entertainment, but
a form of therapy and education, as well as providing an atmosphere and message
platform. Its popularity and widespread availability is the reason why, even in
the age of streaming services, music is not free from malicious activity:
criminals use popular artists’ names to spread malware hidden in music tracks
or video clips. In light of the biggest music awards of the year, to show
the extent of the problem, Kaspersky researchers analysed Grammy 2020 nominated
artists’ names and song titles for malware [1]. As a result, Kaspersky found
30,982 malicious files that used the names of artists or their tracks in order
to spread malware, with 41,096 Kaspersky product users having encountered them. Analysis of the nominated artists showed that the names of Ariana Grande, Taylor Swift and Post Malone were used most to disguise malicious files, with over half (55%) of detected malicious files named after them. Lagos Fire: 17 including pregnant woman injuried, 4 buildings collapsed – LASEMA The connection between the rise in popularity and malicious
activity is very evident in the case of newer artists such as Billie Eilish.
The teenage singer became hugely popular in 2019, and the number of users who
downloaded malicious files with her name has risen almost tenfold compared to
2018 – from 254 to 2171, the number of unique distributed malicious files –
from 221 to 1,556. For instance, while the number of users attacked by Malware
disguised as Billie Eilish songs in Nigeria accounted for only 381 in 2018,
2019 saw this number increase to 9,722. Overall, Nigeria saw 55 of such
malicious files distributed in this region in 2019, with 94,630 attacks. However, while nomination for a prestigious award and
recognition connected to it affects users’ interest in specific artists and, as
a result, a growth in malicious activity, this is not necessarily the case for
more established artists such as Lady Gaga, whose name use also experienced a
rise in attacks in the past year. Kaspersky also analysed which records and songs, nominated
for a Grammy in 2019, received most attention from cybercriminals. Post
Malone’s ‘Sunflower’, Khalid’s ‘Talk’ and Lil Nas X’s ‘Old Town Road’, led the
way for songs with the most malware attacks. “Cybercriminals understand what is popular and always strive
to capitalise on that. Music, alongside TV shows, is one of the most popular
types of entertainment and, as a result, an attractive means to spread malware,
which criminals readily use. However, as we see more and more users subscribe
to streaming platforms, which do not require file download in order to listen
to music, we expect that malicious activity related to this type of content
will decrease,” – comments Anton Ivanov, Kaspersky security analyst. To avoid falling victim to malicious programs pretending to
be popular music files, Kaspersky recommends taking the following steps: If you want to listen or download famous artists’ songs, use reputable services like Apple Music, Spotify Premium, and Amazon Music. Or try to find a recognised free music site that allows you to download songs legally. Try to avoid suspicious links, promising exclusive music content. Check musicians’ official social media accounts or read reputable music blogs like Pitchfork, to make sure that such content exists. Look at the downloaded file extension. Even if you are going to download an audio or video file from a source you consider trusted and legitimate, the file should have an mp3, .avi, .mkv or .mp4 extension among other music and video formats, definitely not .exe or .lnk. Use a reliable security solution, such as Kaspersky Security Cloud (https://bit.ly/37GCi3r), for comprehensive protection from a wide range of threats.