The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono has stated that Nigeria would start to export rice in the next Two Years. Nanono, made this disclosure during a press conference after a working visit of the Nestle Nigeria Public Limited Company (PLC) Office in Lagos, today. READ ALSO Guinea Seeks Nigeria’s Support in Rice Production In a statement signed by the Ministry’s spokesperson, Ezeaja Ikemefuna, Nanono noted that the Country’s land border closure had resulted in increased outputs by many rice milling plants which were operating below capacities before the closure. The Minister pointed out that with the improved production
rate, Nigeria rice will soon be exported, “before the closure of our land
border, most of these rice milling plants were partially operating, but now they
not only operate in full capacities but are also expanding.” He said, “if we maintain the momentum in the next two
years, we may export rice to other countries. “I was worried in terms of the production of rice, but
what I have found out is that most rice producers have stocked rice for the
next six months “this means that before the stock is finished, dry
season rice will be harvested, and before that finishes, rainy season will come
back “. He stressed that it is only in three months from November to
January that rice is not being grown in our country. According to the Minister, “we cultivate rice in a nine-month cycle. Probably as we move on,  the cycle will widen,so we do not have a problem with rice processing. He also said that there had been expansion of local rice
Value Chain as well as the creation of more jobs due to increase in rice
production. “As at today, we have 11 rice milling plants with the
capacity to produce from 180 tonnes to 350 tonnes of rice per day. In a few months, another mill with a capacity to produce 400
tonnes of rice per day is going to be opened, with another upcoming 34 smaller
mills; then, we have clusters in different areas ” , the Minister
observed. He added that the local rice farmers were fully engaged and
used between 200 farm lands and 300 farm lands directly. Nanono lauded Nestle Nigeria PLC for its role in assisting local farmers and creating jobs for Nigerians. Earlier in his welcome remarks, the Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer, Nestle Nigeria 
PLC, Mr. Mauricio Alarcon, thanked the Minister and his delegation for
the visit and called for stronger and robust working relationship with the
Ministry. He also said that there were much opportunities for collaboration in
Nigeria.