Policemen from the anti-kidnapping unit of the Lagos state Police Command have arrested a 26-year-old woman, Ataghar Namdoo, who allegedly plotted her own kidnap. Namdoo, a mother of one, had allegedly connived with her boyfriend, Emmanuel Idu and another suspect identified as Okpe David to carry out the criminal act. Police investigation revealed that Idu and David had taken the lady to a bush, where they recorded a short video of her tied and blindfolded, and thereafter demanded for N10 million ransom. In another video that was sent to Namdoo’s employer, her accomplices were said to have covered their faces with masks, while holding a jack knife and threatening to kill their supposed victim if the said ransom wasn’t paid promptly. According to the Lagos state Police Public Relations Officer, Elkana Bala, when the state police commissioner received complaints of the kidnap, he ordered the anti-kidnapping unit to rescue the alleged victim, as well as arrest her captors. Bala confirmed that Namdoo and David have been arrested, while efforts were on to arrest Idu, who is on the run. The police spokesman said that “Namdoo conspired with her boyfriend, Idu and his friend, David to produce a short video of her blindfolded and driven to a bush in a truck and in a second video, the mother of one, was seen in a bush at Sangotedo area in Ajah being threatened by a man wearing a mask and holding a jack knife. “Police later identified the masked man as Idu. The abductors were demanding for N10 million as ransom in the video. The two videos were sent to the employer of the lady with a threat to kill her and to also go after the family of the employer if the ransom is not paid. “Frightened by the threat contained in the video and the follow up calls, the said employer reported the case to the police. The videos were thoroughly analysed alongside other vital leads. Read Also: Army commander tasks soldiers on discipline, professionalism A well coordinated operation was put in place which led to the successful rescue of the self arranged victim of the abduction and the arrest of David.” Bala added that David confessed to providing and driving the truck used for the operation as well as the video recordings of the kidnap, adding that the suspects would soon be charged to court.