Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger on Monday alleged that some moles in the state divulge government classified information on security issues to bandits resulting in attacks on some Local Government Areas. Bello made this known in Minna during a press conference on the recent order by President Muhammadu Buhari to the Nigerian Air Force to tackle suspected hideouts of bandits in the state. Recalled that since 2016 six Local Government Areas; Paikoro, Munya, Shiroro, Rafi, Rijau and Mariga have been under the siege of armed bandits and recently Mashegu made the list also. He said that the Presidential order on the security issue was supposed to be confidential but some people leaked the information to the bandits ahead of the operation. According to the Governor, “the bandits have informants everywhere; even in this room we are gathered. “This is a fact that we must accept, although disturbing we must accept it. “When the President gave such orders it was supposed to be confidential but some people have politicised it now to serve their political interest or indirectly informing the bandits of government plan. “Therefore it will not be out of place to call for this press briefing to inform the public on the situation,” he said. Bello alleged that the bandits operate with the assistance of some people within and outside government. Revenge, hatred, violent attacks should have no place in Nigeria – Buhari “Recently somebody exposed my report on how to use vigilante to assist the security agencies. “I believe that the Department of State Services has commenced investigation on how to fish out the person,” he said. Bello said that the state government had been providing logistics such as vehicles to support various operations by security agencies and the vigilante toward ending the menace of bandits in the state. The governor noted that the security forces tackling the issue are short of personnel as they are overstretched. He said that the state government would continue to support the security agencies and the vigilante in stamping out the criminals. Bello appealed to newsmen and other members of the public to collaborate with the security agencies to enable them win the war against criminals in the state. The governor also donated 120 motorcycles and 12 Toyota and Nissan pickups to the vigilante group in the affected areas so as to assist security agencies in tackling insecurity. Also the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) says it will continue to ensure adequate security in Katsina and the North West region as a whole. The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, gave the assurance when Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina visited him in Abuja on Monday. Abubakar assured the governor that the NAF would continue to do everything humanly possible to protect the country and to ensure that nobody created problems. He disclosed that plans were underway to increase the number of Regiments Special Forces in Katsina, Daura and Gusau in Zamfara to support the security forces in the North West. The CAS said the Service was also monitoring Kebbi State, and enhancing the fuel storage in Gusau to get to where the criminals were in the North West. He advised the bandits in the forest to surrender to the Police or Army. The air chief said the Federal Government was doing everything possible to support the NAF and other security agencies to tackle bandits and other forms of crimes in the country. Abubakar disclosed that the NAF had additional aircraft to induct which would add value to the North West and North East operations. “We assure you that we will continue to ensure security in Nigeria,” he said. Earlier, the governor commended the CAS and the NAF for their efforts to ensure that people go about their normal lives without fear. “I am here to appreciate and thank the Nigerian Air Force, especially those who are stationed in Katsina, the CAS has been to Katsina on this issue of bandits, kidnapping and other criminalities in the State. “Let me state categorically that we are pleased with the performance of your men in Katsina, thank you for the support. We thank you very much, we are appreciative of your men on ground in Katsina,” he said. He noted that before the State could act, NAF had already acted in the air to tackle the bandits, adding that the bandits now use motorcycles to operate in the night. The governor disclosed that the Katsina Government had restricted the movement of motorcycles from 7 p.m. to 6.a.m. in the state. Masari said that the measure became necessary to tackle the issue of kidnappings in the state. He noted that the State had not witnessed any case of kidnapping since the order banning the movement of motorcycles. (NAN) 