Following the death of Action Alliance chieftain in Imo State, Mr Ndubuisi Emenike through an accidental discharge by an operative of the NSCDC, the Commandant General, Abdullahi Gana, has banned members of the Civil Defence armed squad from display of firearms especially in public places. He declared this when he paid a condolence visit to the former governor of Imo state and serving Senator Rochas Okorocha to commiserate with him on the demise of an illustrious son of the state. Imo killing: NSCDC commiserate with family, orders investigation Gana maintained that the order was necessitated by the need to prevent future occurrence of such costly accident. That any personnel caught flagrantly displaying or brandishing firearms in whatever circumstances or during any celebration risks dismissal. “And henceforth, it has become an offence for armed bearers to stay within the immediate perimeters of any occasion; they must keep a 50 meters distance away from events or party venues” Gana said. He assures senator Okorocha and the entire people of Imo state of decisive punitive action against the alleged shooter of the chieftain without any compromise. That as the head of a disciplined and responsible organization, the condolence visit is necessary to commiserate and identify with the people of Imo state at this period of mourning. Gana consequently warned all state commandants to put their house in order and ensure that their personnel exhibits the highest form of professional discipline wherever they find themselves. Stressing that on no account must he receive report bothering on misuse of firearms from any state command because when that happens, such commandant should be ready to face the consequences as any breach of security and safety of the people would no longer be condoned from any command forthwith. He expressed regret over the incident and assures that the Corps is with the family in prayers and will be paying personal condolence visits to the immediate family of the deceased in Imo and Lagos state soon.