Following Iran attack on United State base,  analyst on Wednesday revealed that Futures in London  surged more than 5per cent , closing above $68 a barrel on concern of further escalation in the oil-rich region. Just recently, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps claimed responsibility for the missile attack in Iraq, just even as reoports have it that crude hit a three month high of almost $72 a barrel immediately after the incident, in which 10 missiles struck the Ayn al-Asad base in Western Iraq and another facility in Erbil. Chief commodities analyst, SEB AB, Bjarne Schieldrop said , not a single drop of oil supply has been lost due to the recent incidents and that is why the oil price so quickly has fallen back down again. Breaking: Trump reacts to Iran strikes, will hit Iran with new sanctions Prices also abated as officials  from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) promised to keep supplies flowing to customers. United Arab Emirate Energy Minister, Suhail Al Mazrouei added that, they  are not forecasting a shortage of supply unless we have a catastrophic escalation, which they don’t see. OPEC Secretary General, Mohammad Barkindo said,  he was confident that there leaders are doing everything possible to restore normalcy. Daily Times, however, gathered that Brent crude rose as much as $3.48 to $71.75 a barrel, before trading 14 cents higher at $68.41 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange and also West Texas Intermediate climbed as much as $2.95, or 4.7%, to $65.65 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, it later slipped to $62.52. While oil flows from the Middle East continue unimpeded for now, fears persist about the risk to exports from the region, which accounts for almost a third of global supplies. Half of Saudi Arabia’s production was briefly knocked out by a missile strike in September, and most crude exports from the Persian Gulf transit the Strait of Hormuz waterway, which Iran has in the past threatened to close. Investors are paying up in order to protect against higher prices after the strikes. Call options on WTI,  which allow the holder to buy futures at a set price  are at the biggest premium to puts since September, when it spiked in the wake of the attacks on Saudi oil sites. This Implied volatility as a key measure of how expensive the options have reached the highest since early December. The market relatively muted response is another sign that global supplies are in an era of abundance, largely powered by the American shale oil revolution. Daily Times gathered that,  OPEC is sitting on huge amounts of spare capacity after reducing supplies for most of the past three years, while big oil consumers including the U.S. and China also hold millions of barrels in strategic reserves that can be deployed to offset any shortage.