Sokoto state Governor, Aminu Tambuwal has emerged as replacement for Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa state as chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors Forum. Gov. Tambuwal’s choice as chairman was approved Sunday night during the governors meeting in Abuja and he was officially presented to the party leadership at the PDP’s 88th National Executive Council (NEC) meeting at the party’s headquarters in Abuja. He promised that the governors will work together with other party organs to continue to strengthen the party and deepen democracy in Nigeria. The governor, who admitted that the party is going through tough times after losing power in 2015, said concerted the efforts of all stakeholders is required to strengthen the party and position it ahead of the 2023 general elections. Gov. Tambuwal promised that the PDP Governors Forum would be repositioned to take governance closer to the grassroots and not to allow the good governance qualities of the PDP to be eroded. “We assure you as your governors that we shall continue to work together in unity and with the national working committee in ensuring that the programmes of the party, especially in our respective states in line with our manifestoes are implemented. “And we shall also continue to support the party in its drive for membership and development. We will look at the issues that the chairman has raised. “We have taken them and by the grace of God, we shall work together with them in ensuring that we deepen democracy in our dear country and we want to say to the chairman that in the forthcoming congresses, we are going to give you all the support that you require as your governors. Read Also: Whatever has happened won’t stop me from going to church – Leah Sharibu’s father “Let me thank our party members, especially those at the grassroots level for your support, cooperation and encouragement when last week we went through a very harrowing and challenging experience at the tribunal and in particular, at the Supreme Court. “Your support through the press statements, through interventions and the rallies held across the country helped in ensuring that what was masterminded by some losers that were hell bent on making Nigeria a one party state was stopped and I assure you that your support will not be in vain,” the governor added.