.Restates Nigeria’s economic relations with Turkey The Federal Government of Nigeria on Tuesday reiterated its determination to strengthens  its economic relations with foreign companies, including the Turkish government, in the areas of construction, manufacturing and technology, among many other sectors. Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Prof. Osinbajo disclosed this when he received at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, a Turkish business delegation led by Turkey’s Minister of Trade, Ruhsar Pekcan. With Nigeria and Turkey having existing bilateral relations for decades and maintained close cooperation in international organizations, the Vice President noted that he looks forward to greater cooperation between the two countries exploring other areas to deepen economic ties. According to the VP, “I think also that more opportunities will come for further interactions with Turkey, especially in the light of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement we just signed. I believe very strongly that this is an opportunity also for Turkey to participate fully in the African economies, in particular, Nigeria’s economy. As you are well aware, several Turkish companies are already operating in Nigeria, in construction, manufacturing and other areas.” The Vice President added that the Federal Government is looking forward to more foreign investment in Nigeria in different sectors. In her remarks, the Turkish Minister of Trade said the Turkish government is looking forward to improving the bilateral trade volume between Nigeria and Turkey and deepening economic ties. She noted that there are several Turkish companies already in Nigeria and Turkish investors willing to invest in different sectors in the country. Carlo Ancelotti’s son-in-law Mino Fulco joins Everton backroom staff Pekcan also thanked the Nigerian government for its continued support in tackling the global threat of terrorism. Senior government officials at the meeting include the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo; Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; and the Executive Director/ CEO, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Mr Segun Awolowo. Earlier, the Vice President had received a delegation from the Law Students Association of Nigeria (LAWSAN), the umbrella body of all law students in the country. During the meeting, Prof. Osinbajo stated that young Nigerians play very important roles in building the Nigerian enterprise and urged them to embrace opportunities to make those contributions. Describing the Association’s innovative campaign, LAWSAN Goes to School, as laudable, the VP said he was impressed by the quality, scope of work and thoughtfulness behind initiatives being driven by the association. LAWSAN Goes to School is an outreach for creating awareness among Secondary School students on certain important aspects of the Law in society. In his remarks, the President of the Law Students Body, Mr Emmanuel Nwobodo, said the campaign is part of the association’s drive to give back to society. “We strongly believe in corporate social responsibility because it is vital in achieving the kind of future we want to build for ourselves and Nigeria,” Nwobodo said.