The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), has signed an agreement with AIRTEL Nigeria to further expand telecommunication services to boost U-Report, UNICEF’s unique social media platform that empowers young people and communities with information to transform their communities and drive positive change on a wide range of issues affecting them. U-Report uses simple short message service (SMS) and social media to reach more than three million responders (U-Reporters) across all states in Nigeria on critical issues such as access to education, skills development and employability, water and sanitation, health, violence against children, safety and security, and the needs of internally displaced persons. It relies on volunteers from the community, mostly young people serving as U-Reporters, to provide information through polls. Results generated from U-Report polls are shared with the office of the Vice President of Nigeria and other relevant agencies for necessary action. Airtel Nigeria is also passionate about empowering people and providing them an opportunity to rediscover themselves and to become successful in their personal and professional endeavors. We are confident that U-report will continue to deliver value in the remotest locations as we explore more innovative and sustainable ways of helping the underprivileged and also promoting corporate philanthropy U-Report introduced the second platform in Nigeria, U-Report 24×7, almost a year ago, dedicated to serving the needs of affected populations in the north-east states of Borno, Yobe, and Adamawa. It has become a trusted channel for sharing lifesaving information on essential household practices to adopt by communities during emergencies, such as disease outbreaks. U-Report is a platform for increased stakeholder engagement and community empowerment. “Partnerships are essential as we continue to support communities to become active participants in finding solutions to issues that affect them. We are delighted that AIRTEL Nigeria shares this vision,” said Peter Hawkins, UNICEF Nigeria Representative. APC has no opposition in Kano, says Doguwa The first U-Report poll in Nigeria was sent in April 2014, and since then over nine hundred polls have been shared on the platform in English and the major Nigerian languages of Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo and Pidgin, making the platform inclusive. Political office holders also use the U-Report platform to connect with their constituencies to find out their service delivery needs and areas for improvement.