By Tunde Opalana Senate on Wednesday commenced the legislative process towards the establishment of the Institute of Information and Communication Technology in Uga, Anambra State, Daily Times gathered. The resolution followed consideration of a bill to that effect sponsored by Senator Ifeanyi Ubah (YPP Anambra South). The bill which was read for the first time on Tuesday, July 7, 2020, passed the second reading yesterday on the floor of the senate. Leading the debate, Sen. Ubah said “the institute, when established will carry out scientific and applied research in the area of modern information technology application to optimize processes and decision support systems.” He argued that the institute would provide dynamic learning infrastructure with quality education through rigorous teaching and research methodologies in ICT, adding that it would provide academic programmes with quality curricula focus to forge professionals, experts and scholars in the field of ICT, electronics, software engineering and telemedicine. Senator Ubah further explained that the institute will aim at fostering such values amongst its academia, undergraduates and graduate scholars, and ensuring a place of pride for our teeming youths in the world of learning. The Bill, he stressed “seeks to provide platforms for modelling, design and control of processes and systems, create single and multi-objective optimization models, group decision making models, desktop and web-based software systems for information processing, optimization and decision support”, adding that it will enable for research and studies to enhance modelling and optimization for automobile breakthroughs, renewable energy sources and for night vision devices. The lawmaker also noted that “technology is extremely important in the workplace as a means of communication, today businesses rely on it heavily.” “Technology allows many businesses to expand more quickly by having the proper means to promote. It is trending now that all businesses have social network websites that would enable service delivery and giving updates to their customers. “ICT is the trending best practice the world over, and an institute specially designated for this purpose should be a welcome development,” he stressed. In his contribution, Senator Smart Adeyemi (APC Kogi West), sought the support of the Senate to the bill, and called for the establishment of the institute in all the six geopolitical zones of the country. Also, Senator Binos Yaroe (APC Adamawa South), noted that education remains the bedrock of development of any nation and therefore stressed the need for the government to venture into areas capable of generating employment opportunities and revenues like the ICT and mining, among others into the country. READ ALSO: Remove Nigeria from ‘religious freedom violations’ list, FG warns US