The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus said the party is making moves to handover its structure to Nigerian youths to provide effective leadership for the country, Daily Times gathered. Secondus made this statement in Awka, Anambra State, during a national youths summit of the party for the five Southeastern States of Nigeria. Speaking to youths at the summit under the theme: Youth in governance, PDP the platform; Secondus said it has been proven that Nigerian youths are capable of leading the country and that the summit was meant to prepare them for leadership. Secondus listed some youths in Nigeria and overseas who have succeeded in leadership positions and also used their creative minds to develop mind-blowing inventions. He said, “This is a summit to build the capacity of the youths and prepare them for leadership. Youths everywhere are the catalysts for development, and we want to prepare our youths through this summit to be able to withstand the challenges of leadership. “We’re here (Awka) today, and it as a starting point. We will move to other zones of the country and prepare our youths. We will use this (summit) to compare notes with our youths. It is not a rally, but a brainstorming session. “APC has failed in leadership and also failed in giving the youths space in their party. Nigeria is in a mess, but we urge you to be patient and law abiding and to think inwards and find what you can do for your country. PDP remains the hope of Nigeria and we are handing the party over to youths,” he said. Zonal Chairman of the party, Ali Odefa said it has been confirmed that PDP youths were among the most refined youths in Nigeria, adding that the party remains the most youth-friendly party in the country, which has given many youths its platform to attain leadership positions. “This is the only platform where your aspirations will not be truncated. Southeast is PDP and PDP is Southeast and we will demonstrate that by picking the Anambra governorship seat in 2021. “Despite what has happened (defection), the Southeast remains PDP. What has happened recently is just a temporary setback. Ebonyi remains PDP and we will correct that very soon. “We will demonstrate that the Southeast is PDP by taking Anambra in 2021. See the number of National Assembly members we have in Anambra, how come we are unable to win the governorship seat? That is the mathematics we will solve very soon,” he said. The summit was attended by youths from all the states in the Southeast, and also leaders of the party in the zone. BOT chairman of the party, Senator Walid Jibril, Enugu State governor, Rt Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, former Vice Presidential candidate of the party, Mr Peter Obi, Senate minority leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe and many others were in attendance. READ ALSO: Buhari embarks on a seven-day private visit to Daura