By Promise Adiele Opinion, Many people believe that Ghanaian novelist Ayikwei Armah’s The Beautyful Ones Are Not Yet Born is a boring piece of literature. Of course, it depends on their immediate and remote assessment of the novel. When I first read the novel as a student, I found it monotonous. With a glaring deficit in character proficiency and exciting narrative technique, the novel made difficult reading for my puerile mind. Besides its continual recreation of filth as an inexorable part of human occupation, besides consistently exposing a Ghanaian society enmeshed in corruption, the novelist relieves all the inherent tedium at the end when the military takes over power, sacking all the corrupt politicians which marked the end of Kwame Nkrumah’s administration. Of course, as with every military coup d’état, the streets of Ghana were alive with jubilation. All the politicians who submerged the young African country were arrested, although a major character in the novel, Joseph Koomson managed to escape. It is that coup incident at the end of the novel that tickles my creative fancy this week as I attempt a deconstructive analysis of the warning by Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai. Military coup d’état is evil. Those who plot military coups are agents of perdition from the pit of Hades. Their handsome comeuppance is capital punishment. No coup plotter can be associated with any form of good intentions, never mind all the reasons they give for overthrowing a democratically elected government. But that is as far as they are not successful. If they succeed, they become apostles of integrity and regale us with sanctimonious tales-by-moonlight. Coup disorganizes a country. It takes the country backwards. It is democracy’s number one enemy. The army is not trained to rule, they do not understand the science of governance even when they retire and become civilians. When the military comes to power, no matter how people-friendly their policies may be, they always enunciate dictatorial policies, suspending the constitution and ruling with totalitarian powers. They rule with impunity and their echelons are always above the law. Under a military regime, freedom of speech is a big luxury. I am sure writers like us will hibernate forever or relocate to another clime. Intriguingly, people always take to the streets each time the military takes over the government in any part of the world. In the novel under reference, immediately after the coup, people went to the streets, dancing and singing. Given all the sadistic trappings of a military regime, why then do people rejoice when they strike? Why did Ghanaians in the novel party all night to welcome the military men? A military regime is evil, yet the people rejoice when they take over power, why? Does it mean that we all have an unconscious craving for evil? Does it mean that the human faculties innately desire evil without knowing it? I have also witnessed military coups in Nigeria and how the people took to the streets to rejoice and party all night, yet we all agree that a military regime is evil. This kind of extended irony deserves a critical inquest from our expert colleagues in the field of psychology. Why do we always rejoice in the evil event of military take-over of government? Last week, during the decoration of 39 newly promoted Major Generals, the Chief of Army Staff Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai admitted before the whole world that he was aware that some military officers were being approached to scuttle the current democratic dispensation. Buratai assured Nigerians that his eyes were on such officers and that the army will protect democracy in Nigeria. In his words “democracy has come to stay. We will not tolerate any agent of destabilization. The years of military misadventure in politics have never carried us (sic) anywhere. It is over” he concluded with a tone of finality in a typical military fashion. Furthermore, Buratai charged the newly promoted officers “do not hobnob with politicians. All our eyes are on you. We know there are several moves to get your attention. You must make sure that (sic) whatever you are doing and when some persons approach you, you must act within the confines of the constitution”. Ordinarily, one would say that Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai is a good man. But his outburst during the recent decoration of 39 newly promoted major generals did not cover him in glory. Coup is a very sensitive topic within the rank and file of any military establishment. But here is our Chief of Staff betraying a veiled knowledge of coup plotting within the army. In his words, he said, “we know there are several moves to get your attention”. One does not need to be a student of language to understand the semantic import of the word “know”. Is the tough-looking Lt. Gen. implicitly admitting that it has come to his knowledge that some officers are already plotting a coup? Is he also telling Nigerians that it has come to his knowledge that some politicians are already approaching military officers to topple the current government? I am sure the Lt. Gen. does not fully understand the import of his statement. If indeed Buratai “knows” of any impending coup, he does not need to keep an eye on the officers. He should expose and arrest them immediately. If he also “knows” that some politicians are minded to sponsor a coup, he should expose and arrest them immediately. You do not admit to “know” of coup plotting and do nothing. In my engagements with psychoanalysis as a literary theory, I once came across the term pre-emptive psychology. It is a situation where a character in a literary work attacks a perceived opponent first based on fears that he will be attacked by the opponent. It does not matter whether the opponent is nursing any ambition to attack the character. The character is afraid that the opponent is going to strike, therefore decides to strike first. Pre-emptive psychology is a defensive mechanism to ward off fear and discourage the opponent into thinking that his devices are already known. Could it be that Lt. Gen. Buratai is employing the pre-emptive psychology tactic to demonstrate that he is in charge even when there is no iota of truth in any coup plot? Could it be that Buratai has studied the prevailing circumstances in Nigeria and has identified similar parallels with Nigeria of 1983 before the men in khaki struck? Has Buratai read Armah’s novel under reference and is afraid that what happened at the end of the novel will happen in Nigeria? Has Buratai read the handwriting on the wall and is arrogating absolute knowledge to himself to give the impression that he is in charge? There is no doubt that the conditions in Nigeria are near-tragic but we must do everything to resist the military coming into politics. Their place is in the barracks and in the barracks they must remain. However, Lt. Gen. Buratai must be careful how he deploys his mind games to avoid hitting up the polity. READ ALSO: Opinion: International Day of People with Disabilities: Personal reflections on growing up with polio Right now, the military is very unpopular in Nigeria given the ignominious way they conducted themselves at Lekki recently. If Buratai “knows” that some military officers are toying with the idea of a coup, let him arrest them immediately and expose them to the world rather than this kind of guesswork. If he also “knows” that some politicians are approaching some military officers to achieve nefarious ends, let him expose them immediately. Let our distinguished Chief of Army Staff soro soke or forever hold his peace.