The East Carolina University’s, United State of America, International Center for Information Technology and Development, (ECU-ICITD), College of Business, has appointed Gov Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State to the position of Senior Mentoring Scholar and Visiting Full Professor of E-Governance and International Affairs, Daily Times reports. According to the statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor of Kano State, Abba Anwar on Tuesday, December 1, the position conferred on the governor was as a result of his accomplishment in good governance and genuine investment in human capital development. In a letter transmitted to the governor titled “Appointment to the position of Senior Mentoring Scholar and Visiting Full Professor of E-Governance and International Affairs at East Carolina University International Center for Information Technology and Development, Greenville, North Carolina, USA, signed by Prof. Victor W. and dated 30th November, 2020, he was congratulated by the University’s Academic Board. READ ALSO:  Borno killings: We lack sophisticated weaponry to fight Boko Haram —Police reacts It reads “Congratulations! The Academic Board of International Center for Information Technology and Development, College of Business, USA, is pleased to inform you that you have been appointed as Senior Mentoring Scholar and Visiting Full Professor of E-Governance and International Affairs.” Not only that, Ganduje’s choice is a depiction of close monitoring of his achievements as a governor in the last couple of years. Which eventually earned him global recognition and commendation. As the letter acknowledges that, “You have been a source of motivation to the Nigerian youths both at home and in diaspora at large. We are amazed at your accomplishments both as the Executive Governor of Kano State, Nigeria, Fellow National Association of Educational Administration and Planning, Nigeria, and your investment in Human Capital Development.” As his academic responsibilities, the Academic Board of the University assigns for the governor, that, “…you will mentor PhD students, junior lecturers, as well as take a lead in advising our University’s Research Center on academic issues related to E-Governance and International Affairs. We run specialised workshops for government officials (Executive, Judiciary and Legislature) from developing nations.” The University’s keen interest in tapping from governor  Ganduje’s wealth of experience, good governance posture and commitment to societal development, they said, “…we will be elated to host you even once a year to speak to them during our conferences and colloquia. This will be scheduled at your convenience.” Speaking the obvious, the letter appreciates that, “Looking at your academic, administrative, and overall leadership record in Nigeria and Africa, you fit perfectly in East Carolina University’s goal to remain a leading research and teaching institution in the United States and beyond. It is our fervent hope, Sir, that you will accept this offer. Your appointment will be posted at …ECU-ICITD’s website…once we get your acceptance.”