A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu, has called for sustained efforts to ensure the unity of the country as an indivisible entity. Tinubu made the remark during the wedding Fatiha of Sheikh Muhammad Uthman’s daughter. The city of Kano was agog as Naisa Muhammad Bin-Uthman and Nuruddeen Adam were joined together as husband and wife. Speaking during the event, Tinubu commended Bin Uthman for his efforts as a committed Islamic scholar and advocate of the unity, progress, peace and development of the country. “When I was informed about the wedding Fatiha, I said I must come because of Bin Uthman’s commitment to promoting unity among Nigerians. “Within the 24-hour notice I received to attend the wedding, I felt I must be here. Consequently, I informed Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of my plans even if he was not around,” Tinubu said. The former Lagos State governor said that Nigerians must work hard for the unity and development of the country. He said divisive elements would not stop at trying to divide the country. Tinubu said if greater numbers of Nigerians remained resolutely united, the nation would get even stronger. According to the national leader of the APC, the unity of the country is one of the major areas that should be given greater priority by every Nigerian. In his remarks, Gov. Ganduje described the marriage as an important one considering the families of the couple. “Looking at the calibre of people at the wedding Fatiha, it is a clear indication that Bin Uthman has been contributing immensely towards the promotion of Islam and unity of the country. READ ALSO: Farmers’ killing in Borno is Satanic – Tinubu reacts “I was having a programme outside the city, but when Asiwaju told me he was coming to Kano for the wedding, I decided not to go anywhere until he has left Kano,” Ganduje said. Earlier in his address of welcome, Bin Uthman commended both Tinubu and Ganduje for blessing the wedding with their presence, saying their attendance was one of the indications of a united Nigeria.