By Tunde Opalana The immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has attributed his tenure in office to the support given to him by President Muhammadu Buhari. Though he described his unceremonious removal from office as illegality, he said the National Executive Committee (NEC) was entitled to its reasons for dissolving the Oshiomhole – led National Working Committee (NWC) in June. In a statement on Monday, the former governor of Edo State dissociated himself from a litigation challenging the inauguration of the party’s Caretaker/ Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee headed by Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni. Commending Buhari’s support, he said. “I am grateful and loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari who encouraged me to contest the chairmanship of the party. “I am also very much appreciative of the support of President Buhari who encouraged me to assert the authority of the party without fear or favour. “Indeed, I would not have lasted as long as I did as national chairman, but for the President’s support for me. “I will continue to support his administration to succeed in serving the common good of the people of Nigeria.” Explaining his declaration of support for the Caretaker Committee, Oshiomhole said “when the National Executive Committee (NEC) in its wisdom dissolved the NWC, I immediately announced publicly that I accepted the decision, regardless of its illegality or otherwise, as it affected my position as national chairman. “I was the only one at the press conference where I made the announcement for personal reasons. The reason, of course, was that some of my colleagues in the dissolved NWC obviously didn’t share my position not to contest the dissolution in court. I can only accept responsibility for my own decision. “Subsequently, I instructed my lawyers to withdraw the suits challenging my purported suspension from office by the proxies of those bent on removing me as chairman. “Above all, I bear no grudges against any one for the manner of my removal”. He, therefore, dissociated himself from two different suits by two party members; Hilliard Etagboeta, former National Vice Chairman (South South) and Lalu Lalu Agu against the dissolution of the Oshiomhole – led NWC and inauguration of the Caretaker Committee. “In reporting the legal action taken by a member of the dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), some attributions have been made to the effect that plaintiff is an “ally of Oshiomhole” or an “associate of Oshiomhole.” “The court documents are clear on who is the plaintiff. For the avoidance of doubt, the 21-member NWC under my leadership largely worked cohesively and harmoniously. The only exceptions were those of the three members used by forces desperate to take control of the party. “They contrived a crisis and abused the judicial process to undermine the constitution and integrity of the party. “The majority of 18 members worked as a team and not as allies or loyalists of anybody,” he said. READ ALSO: The APC caretaker of the party committee’s tenure has been extended He as well foreclosed any idea of seeking further elective post in the party’s leadership. He said “that chapter of my political life is closed. Even if another NEC decision or a court order reverses the dissolution, with utmost humility I will decline to return as APC chairman. “I am proud of the accomplishments of the NWC under my leadership and I am grateful to the principled 18 members who worked as a team committed to the cause of the party.”