On Monday, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB, said that the approach of the issues of insecurity, criminal by the South East governors is typical of the mindset of a divided people. Daily Times gathers. Mazi Kanu alleged that the pathetic approach to the great threat to southeast is a result of years of cruel and deliberate partitioning of the people’s land, cutting Igboland into five states, diving it and calling it alien names. He made this statement he personally signed and made available to newsmen through IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful. Mazi Kanu’s statement read: “Having waited for many years for our governors to secure our land as Yoruba governors did to no avail, we the people of the East comprising of South East and South South have resolved to defend our land from the ravages of terrorism and extra judicial killings by the criminal and killer  herdsmen backed by Nigerian armed forces. “We can’t allow what happened in Obigbo to repeat itself. It has fallen on this generation to defend our land against the ravages of their terrorism and the hegemonic tendencies of a particular ethnic group in Nigeria. READ ALSO: “we need at this stage to secure our people” – Makinde “For years, our mothers have not been able to visit their farms for fear of being raped and cut to pieces. Our invaders, some of them from Sene-Gambia according to El-Rufai are in our villages raping and killing at will. Our response to the endless cycle of insecurity is allowing our mothers and sisters to be raped. “Delta State Government has inaugurated Operation Delta Hawk, a new  security outfit in the classic fragmented approach of the East to issues of national importance. “The West was united in their effort to combat a particular ethnic group’s terrorism in their territory. Even Miyetti Allah, an open supporter of killer herdsmen had the guts to float a vigilante outfit that they wanted to spread to every nook and cranny of Nigeria with the support of the Presidency and Northern governors. “Sadly, in our land, the governors in the East cowardly allowed themselves to become fragmented out of fear of displeasing their caliphate masters. “The approach of Eastern governors to the issue of insecurity and an ethnic group’s terrorism is indicative of the mindset of a divided and conquered people. “The pathetic, cowardly and fragmented approach to this great threat to our existence is the result of years of cruel and deliberate partitioning of our land, cutting Igboland into five inconsequential states, dividing us and calling us alien names like Niger Delta, South South, South East and goodness knows what else. “We have allowed ourselves to become willing tools of the caliphate in our own destruction. Some Igbo people have been cajoled and intimidated to the point where they deny their own identity. For example, Nwike who now answers Wike decided to massacre his own people at Obigbo for the reward of being named vice presidential candidate in 2023.” “First, I speak as a human being who is possessed of a compatriot spirit with suffering humans everywhere. “Second I speak as a witness to the sufferings of Biafrans at the hands of their Nigerian compatriots, all to the point that instead of waning, our resolve for a separate state has been strengthened and cast in stone. “Today, I present to the world our first and last line of defense against a particular ethnic group inspired  anarchy and mayhem across the entire Middle Belt and South. “The Eastern Security Network is here to bring to an end, years of Miyetti Allah terrorism in our land. This security outfit, modelled along the lines of Amotekun in the West and Miyetti Allah vigilante group in the North, will provide the entire East, South South and South East with the necessary assurance that crimes such as kidnapping, armed robbery, illegal occupation of our forests and river banks by marauding killers from the Sahel is brought to an end with immediate effect. “Every ethnic group across Biafraland is well represented in this formation, therefore, I am confident that every city, town and village will be protected from the ravages of killer herdsmen and other terrorist activities in whatever guise it manifests itself.” he also told those weeping for the blood letting in Northern Nigeria that he speak as a human being who is possessed of a compatriot spirit of suffering humans everywhere, and not discriminating against anyone.