By Moses Oyediran The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State has rejected the outcome of the Dec. 5 Isi-Uzo State Constituency election in Enugu State, Daily Times gathered. The conduct of the election followed the death of the former member representing the constituency, Hon Chijioke Ugwueze. Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on Sunday declared the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Mrs Amaka Ugwueze and wife of the deceased lawmaker as the winner of the election. However, members of the APC from Isi- Uzo Local Government Area of the state on Monday staged a peaceful protest at the INEC office in Enugu. Some of the placards displayed by the protesters read “APC rejects the Isi Uzo bye which was marred by irregularities thuggery, and rigging by PDP. “We demand for a review of the INEC result of the bye election. INEC adhoc Staff were bribed by PDP. They Corroborated with PDP to rig the election “The result of the bye election is unacceptable to us, it was marred  by irregularities and electoral fraud. One of the leaders of the protesters, Chief Chinedu Jideofo-Ogbuagu, said that the result as declared by the electoral umpire was unacceptable to them. Jideofo-Ogbuagu said that the outcome of the exercise was contrary to how the people of the area had casted their ballots. He said that the victory of the APC in the election was ‘stolen’, adding that INEC ad hoc staff collaborated with those who unleashed terror on the exercise. “Majority of those who came out voted for the APC but they used thugs to chase away the people and changed the results”, Jideofo-Ogbuagu said. Also, the APC candidate in the election, Mr McDonald Ejiofor, said that he had believed the assurances from INEC that the election would be free and fair. Ejiofor said that their agents were chased out and not allowed to witness collation of results. He said that the election was marred by all manners of irregularities including multiple voting and massive thumb printing, adding that some APC supporters got bodily injuries. Ejiofor said that he was weighing other legal options in a bid to get justice. When contacted, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr Emeka Ononamadu, said that he was surprised that they were protesting. “Why are they protesting. Their agents were there when the results were released,” Ononamadu said. READ ALSO: FG slashes petrol pump price by ₦5, gives date of commencement