Amb. (Prof) George A. Obiozor has expressed his interest to contest for the position of president-general of the Ohaneze Ndigbo. In a letter addressed to the Imo State Ohanaeze Ndigbo elders, the diplomat outlined his plans for the Igbo people. Daily Times reports. He expressed gratitude to the elders for choosing him to contest for the position of the leader of the apex Igbo group.Here is the later below: May I humbly thank Imo State Ohanaeze NDIGBO, ELDERS and Stakeholders ofImo State. May I equally humbly confess that my decision to contest for the office of the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo World Wide was a decision not based on self-aggrandizement, personal ambition or self-promotion. By my age and career history I have long out grown all that. Instead, Your Excellency, Royal Fathers, ladies and gentlemen, my most compellingnecessity was service, a timely and crucial service at one of the most critical times in Nigerian history with dire consequences, particularlyfor Ndigbo as a national entity. Indeed not only has governance become both difficult and complex in Nigeria, but down right an EXISTENTIALTHREAT to NDIGBO in particular. READ ALSO: Ohanaeze Ndigbo is illegal, Lawyer says as he files suit to end group The Igbo dilemma in Nigeria has come home at last and the time requires a very careful and delicate skilled manager in the relationships between Ndigbo and other Nigerian nationalities especiallythe national power elites. This requires a mature and experienced person with a capacity to buildenough consensus to define and defend the interest of Ndigbo.In this respect, my background provides enough evidence.BACKGROUND FORMER:§ Nigerian Ambassador to:The United States of AmericaThe State of IsraelRepublic of Cyprus§ Director General, Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA)§ Secretariat: Co-coordinator, 2014 National Conference, South EastDelegates.§ Member: Presidential Advisory Committee-2014 National Conference, byPresident Good luck Jonathan.§ Adviser to President Ibrahim B. Babangida on International Affairs.§ Adviser to Hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs-General Ike Nwachukwu§ Member: VISION 2010 Political Conference by General Sani Abacha§ Member: 1994 Political Conference (Lagos) led by Dr. Pius Okigbo§ Special Assistant Research-Office of the Political Adviser toPresident Shehu Shagari, Dr. Chuba Okadigbo§ Author of 16 books-8 alone and 8 with others§ Member of National Delegations and conference worldwide. Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, with all sense of modesty, I can andwould assemble Igbo talents and experts to cater and defend the destinyof Ndigbo with appreciable success and diplomatic dexterity, decency anddecorum and Ndigbo will never be victims again, of Nigerian tragiccircumstances which they did not create nor can they control. Again with all modesty, I have had political experience on thisimportant topic and played apprenticeship that went with it, with mostof our Igbo leaders- In my view, ever since the end of the Civil war NDIGBO have not facedEXISTENTIAL threats as we face today. The NATIONAL SITUATION isprecarious and our position must be carefully handled and wiselypresented. As Atilla The Hun advised we must “choose our enemieswisely and our friends carefully.” For far too long NDIGBO have been objects of stereotype and profilingwhich ended in being misunderstood and misrepresented before otherNigerians. That has been the Igbo albatross everywhere in nationalpolitics or business, academia or artisans. Negative profiling has beenan Igbo cross to carry since Nnamdi Azikwe’s emergence in Nigeriapolitics in the 1940s. WE MUST CHANGE THE NARRATIVEFor example; while the Igbos preached Pan Nigerianism, Pan Africanismand universal humanity, we inadvertently surrendered the “realpolitik” of multi-national states which was the only way to protectour own interests, and be effective in a federation. This is because,while we were busy playing politics of idealism, others were playingpolitics of realism and consolidation of national power through allkinds of manipulations. Hence, from Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe on NDIGBO played politics of general national interests while other nationalities,particularly the big other ethnic groups played particularistic politicsof self help. In the end with the British as guardians, Igbo goodwilland patriotism became instruments of their own oppression andhumiliation. At independence in 1960, Dr. Nnamdi Aizikiwe got aceremonial title of Governor General, Alhaji Tafawa Balewa became PrimeMinister and Chief Obafemi Awolowo became opposition, an alternativegovernment.In fact, no people in recent history have been as unfortunateor at best have had mixed fortunes as NDIGBO in their relationship withthe rest of Nigerian nationalities and in Nigerian politics andgovernance. Particularly, Igbo energy and enterprise were misunderstood as “OverAmbitious” § The Igbo talent and ability to turn adversities into advantages,obstacles into opportunities and difficulties into dividends weremisrepresented as attempts at domination. Consequently, quite often Igbos were confronted with envy, anger,hostility and violence at any given crises in Nigeria and even outsideNigeria. But in the end it is still better to ENVY NDIGBO than PITY US.We are therefore at a point to RE-ASSESS the IGBO DILEMMA in Nigeria.Every major group even the minorities are doing same today. NDIGBO fromall indications see RESTRUCTURING as the most preferred option. However,whatever or whichever options others offer, what is real is that all thenationalities in Nigeria will sooner or later go into negotiations ordebates over Nigeria’s future. And through OhanezeNdigbo we must beready to negotiate effectively by having a skilled and experiencedpeople to bargain in the interest of NDIGBO. #Specifically, we seek unity but not unity of slaves and masters, and weseek peace but not peace of the grave yard. We seek justice because weknow that throughout history those denied justice have had no interestin peace. As it stands now, it seems Nigeria and Nigerians would engagethemselves in something like PENALTY SHOOTOUT, every group must becareful in selecting their kickers/strikers. What is at stake requiresthe combination of the talents of the lion and the fox or the eagle andthe dove. Who, or the team that REPRESENTS us matters for that willdetermine much of the destiny of NDIGBO in Nigeria or what follows. Ourposition should therefore begin with efforts to effectively re-integrateNDIGBO into Nigerian political process Effectively, Significantly, andRelevantly. This will require a serious diplomacy and not confrontationsor conflicts. Power elites reward their friends and frustrate or punishtheir enemies. Diplomacy’s greatest lesson is to know how to “CHOOSEyour enemies wisely and your friends carefully”. And most intriguingis how to make “your enemy” your friend for specific objectives. Infact, in politics and diplomacy, it is the identity of interests thatare the surest of bonds between states and individuals in criticalcircumstances and moments as we are now. CONCLUSION We can have our people fairly and functionally united again, as in IgboState Union days. But we must also again have a defined common cause.There are therefore vital work to be done, work that cannot wait, workthat must be done quickly. Nothing unites a people more than success, orprospects for success. The office of President-General of OhanezeNdigbo is not a career or ajob or a position to fulfil personal ambition. It must particularly atthis moment in our history be a position that comes through inspiration,and experience to navigate the Igbo destiny through precarious times ofuncertainty, doubts, and general insecurity. Actually, the world itselfincluding Nigeria is becoming not only more complex but downrightdangerous. This position is to be held in sacred trust for it involvesour people’s destiny. As one of the late Ikemba Ojukwu’s sons put it, “our major need nowis an emergence of a leader figure with the courage of late Ojukwu,Ikemba, wisdom of Dr. M.I. Okpara and sagacity of Chuba Okadigbo, yetendowed with tamed emotion to steer our pride and productivity into acommon force and also lead us into demanding redress for perceivedinjustice”.And what actually is the irreducible minimal demand of Ndigbo in Nigera?Generally to me, the demand is for justice, Equity and Fairness. That iswhat we wish to achieve by RESTRUCTURING the Nigerian Political system,by bringing governance to a level playing field to all its citizens. Andback to the country bequeathed to us by our Founding Fathers “wheretribes and tongues may differ but in brotherhood we stand.”Certainly, it is time for us to change the narratives of the perennialand precarious debates on the future of Ndigbo in Nigeria. An Igboproverb says “MMIRI GA EKWE NWATA GAFERE OKWERENIYA OLAGBA AZU N’ALAMMIRI EBE OSIBIA.” If the river does not allow a child to swim back tosafety to the shores of the river. Our people cannot and should not becondemned to permanently swimming in a dangerous ocean, until weinevitably sink and drown, God forbid. In the present trying moments may we truly have a spirit of purpose, andnationalism that a common love for our freedom may override whateverother issues that do divides us. That a sense of mission may grow in all our hearts and we leave heretoday as a nation and people who care for each other and one anotherregardless of all their differences. We must be reminded that a teamdoes not win championship if its players have different agenda.Definitely we are united by grief and our history. Ours is a righteous cause. Those who oppose us will be defeated, forunlike them, we do not seek to dominate, control or humiliate our fellowcitizens or fellow humanity. Instead, we seek and must at all times seeka world where justice and fairness for all prevail, charity to all andmalice towards none. The Igbo struggle for justice and equity in Nigeriahas been long and torturously agonizing, but there is light at the endof the tunnel, as Nelson Mandela said “it looks impossible until it isdone”. With our new narratives of courage without rancor, wisdomwithout arrogance and intelligence with humility, we will meet ourdetractors and adversaries or rivals with offers they cannot resist, andsituations that compellingly encourage taking right actions for theright reasons. Finally may I assure NDIMO State that I accept as an obligation theirdecision to CHOOSE ME to contest the President General of Ohaneze NdigboWorld Wide as a challenge and a responsibility. A challenge that I must confront triumphantly with honour and dignity,and a sense of Responsibility that history beckons my humble self toshoulder, for the benefit of Ndigbo, humanity and to the glory of God.Do I add, so help me God.Thank you.Amb. (Prof) George A. Obiozor.