By Henry Omunu The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the House of Representatives yesterday challenged Nigerians to compel their representatives in the National Assembly to commence impeachment proceedings against President Muhammadu Buhari for alleged gross incompetence and continuous breach of Section 14(2)(b) of the 1999 Constitution. The section provides that “the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government.” Therefore, the PDP House caucus wants members of the Federal Executive Council to invoke the provisions of Section 144 (1) of the constitution by declaring that the President is incapable of discharging the functions of his office. Leader of the caucus, Rep. Kingsley Chinda (PDP/Rivers), who made the demand, said in a statement in Abuja, that it was disheartening that Buhari has failed to lead Nigerians from the front as he promised. According to him, Nigerians are daily and defencelessly killed by terrorists and bandits, while the economy is being freely bled by public officers. Chinda was reacting to the recent killing of farmers in Zambarmari area of Borno State. According to him, the reactions of the Presidency and the military to the recent killings highlight a certain crassness and lame duck attitude that have for the past five years come to define the Buhari presidency. He said that the body language of the government is worrisome as it emboldens terrorists in the country, adding however, that the greater worries for the country is “the donothing posturing and the effeminate reactions of the presidency and the military that follow the dastardly attacks. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the House of Representatives has observed with deep pain the dastardly attacks on poor farmers which have continued unabated across the vast swathes of northern Nigeria, which came to a sad climax over the weekend in Zabarmari, near Maiduguri. “The attacks continue to take a consistent pattern – a pattern that results in mass deaths and emboldens the insurgents to embark on more spectacular attacks that provide them national and global attention. “While the emboldening of terrorists remain sources of worry, the greater worries for us is the do-nothing posturing and the effeminate reactions of the presidency and the military that follow the dastardly attacks. “The reactions of the presidency and the military highlight a certain crassness and lame duck attitude that have for the past five years come to define the Buhari presidency.” The PDP leader regretted that northern Nigeria has long become the vortex of massacres, asserting that from Buni Yadi, Gamboru, Baga, Gwoza, Shiroro, Konduga, Kawuri, Southern Kaduna to Benue and certainly everywhere else in Nigeria, lives are being snatched by insurgents, bandits and kidnappers who have no respect for the sanctity of life. “While President Buhari idles in the typical fashion of Emperor Nero as our country burns, questions must be asked about his capacity to lead at a time that our country desires robust and responsible leadership that can pull it from the brink and rescue it from the debilitations of insurgents, terrorists, bandits and kidnappers. “President Buhari is unwilling (as it consistently appears,) to provide leadership to our fast collapsing country. Rather than take the proverbial bull by the horn, President Buhari ensconces himself in Aso Rock, typical of a mourner-in-chief, and issues press statements that make no meaning to a grieving nation. “A true leader who is worth every ounce of respect leads from the front as you assured Nigerians that you will do; a true leader doesn’t hide away from those he leads and pretends to mourn with the circus, whilst in fact, he lacks empathy and compassion. “When a country elects a clown as its President based on sentiments and deceit, the country becomes saddled with circus, pantomime jesters who reduce statecraft to utter joke. Our country is in the grips of the clowns, hyenas and the circus is on. “We need to rescue Nigeria from the clowns, acrobats, trapeze actors, hawks and hyenas manipulating the statecraft. READ ALSO: Reps rebuke lawmaker’s call to begin Buhari’s impeachment process As Vice-president Yemi Osibanjo tweeted, if the President says I’ve lost the capacity to guarantee the security of lives and property, it’s certainly an impeachable offence. “Most painful is that whilst leadership is completely absent in Nigeria and the country dovetailing to a state of survival of the fittest, the economy is being fleeced in an unprecedented manner by public office holders. “Recall the warning by Albert Einstien that the world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything. “We call on Nigerians across tribe, religion and political party to wake up their National Assembly Members” and compel them to commence impeachment process against President Buhari to save Nigeria,” the caucus declared.