On December 14, 2016, the Senate
asked Babachir Lawal, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), to
immediately resign from office. This followed the recommendation of its ad hoc
committee on the humanitarian crisis in the north-east, which had investigated
the management of funds for internally displaced persons in the region by the
Presidential Initiative on the North-East (PINE). PINE at the time was under
the SGF. But on January 17, President Muhammadu Buhari wrote to the senate, saying he would not sack Lawal because he was not given fair hearing. The president dilly-dallied and shilly-shallied over the issue for weeks. Do you know Augmented Reality is a new marketing strategy? See 4 other facts to note Shehu Sani, chairman of the
committee which probed Lawal at the time, alleged that the SGF awarded
contracts to companies owned by cronies and relatives of top government
officials. He revealed that Rholavision Engineering Limited, a company, with
Lawal as director, for instance, was awarded a consultancy contract. The company’s major role,
according to him, was the removal of invasive plant species in Yobe State. He
said the former SGF violated all procurement activities and laid-down rules.
Sani also said most of the contracts awarded had no direct bearing or impact on
the IDPs who were living in deplorable conditions. On January 21, two days after
Buhari embarked on a medical peregrination to London, Acting President Yemi
Osinbajo sacked Lawal and ordered his prosecution. But the Lord of the Manor
returned months later – and it was business as usual. Lawal was not arrested or
arraigned until a few days to the 2019 general election. It is obvious now that
this was an artifice by the Buhari administration to win political advantage
and to tout its doped up anti-corruption scorecard. In fact, Aso Rock whisperers
say Osinbajo’s axing of Lawal Daura, former DSS DG, and Lawal formed the crux
of the opposition against him at the presidency. Since February 12, 2019 when
the former SGF was arraigned on charges of fraud, his case has sputtered, and
it is petering out. Nothing! No progress! I will not be surprised if the
charges are eventually withdrawn. Lawal, who once asked in
arrogant conviction, ‘’who is the presidency’’, has no need to worry about any
trial. In fact, I believe he knows it is all smoke by the way he totes himself
around – granting media interviews and making definite pronouncements on the
2023 election. In October 2019, he convened
a news conference where he ‘’crowned’’ a chief partaker in Nigeria’s cock-up
president. Hear him: “By 2023 when
Buhari’s tenure will be over, he’ll go back to Daura to face his cows like I am
doing. But you see, every leader must leave behind a legacy. I will like to see
that he leaves behind a legacy of achievement. “Bola Tinubu is my friend of
many years. Buhari is my big boss. Bola Tinubu without prejudice that he’s my
friend; will make a good president. Other issues notwithstanding, he (Tinubu)
will make a good modern president because the presidency these days is
scientific. Nigerians, by convention, seem to have agreed that there should be
rotation of the presidency.” Last week, in another news
conference, he sentenced governors to the rear quarters and said they are all
parasites. I guess he is right. He should know better because he is alleged to
have diverted N500 million while fighting parasites in Yobe. In its 2019 corruption
perception index published on Thursday, Transparency International (TI) ranked
Nigeria 146 of 180 countries studied, two points lower than 148 the country was
rated in 2018. Based on this rating, Nigeria is the second most corrupt country
in ECOWAS. TI speaking through Civil
Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), its chapter in Nigeria, noted
one-sided/selective anti-graft war as one of the core reasons for the plummet. It said the rich and the
powerful “do not play by the rules”, and that prominent personalities in
politics and business are “untouchable” despite evidence of corruption against
them. “The pre-election period
witnessed mind-blowing scandals, which stayed without consequences. Politicians
stashing millions of dollars in kickbacks or having corruption charges upon
them just need to switch political parties or stay loyal and charges are
dropped against them,” it said. This is where the fatal
failure of Buhari’s war against corruption lies – selective prosecution! There
are those in the president’s fraternity who have corruption allegations hanging
on their necks, but the EFCC is yet to crack up a case against them. Even the
case of the former SGF is clearly bereft of diligent prosecution. Please do not get me started
on how the administration is fighting corruption by ‘’diligently prosecuting’’
the expendables and unnecessary baggage (Orji Kalu and Joshua Dariye) in the
All Progressives Congress. I guess when the Buhari
administration starts to take Babachir Lawal’s case seriously, Nigerians will
begin to take a less passive interest in its fight against corruption.