Ahead of next Monday’s review of the Supreme Court judgment that sacked Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the governor of Imo state, his supporters on Thursday held an inter-denominational prayer in Owerri, to seek the face of God in the legal battle between him and Governor Hope Uzodinma. The
prayers session, which was held at the Nwankwo Kanu Sports Complex, Owerri, was
jointly officiated, by Ven. Echi Nworgu, Rev. Fr. Wence Isiguzo and Pastor
Rostand Amadi with the clerics thanking God and the Supreme Court for giving
Ihedioha and the state a second chance by agreeing to review the
judgement. The
clerics led thousands of others to pray for the success of Ihedioha
at the Supreme Court on Monday. Clerics were drawn from all parts of the state
for the event, which lasted more than three hours. Speaking
at the event, Venerable Nwogu, a former staff of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka
said that “we thank God for a second chance. I know that is the
source of your happiness. I know the source of your happiness is because God
has heard your prayers. It’s because your governor is returning back to
Government House.” Nwogu
told the worshippers that what the people of the state were passing through was
spiritual and “not tribalism, not ethnicity nor political. “It’s
because having won on March 9, 2019, we forgot God in our victory and decided
to do what we liked. This should serve as a lesson to all of us when we return
back.” Also, a
coalition known as the Civil Society for Rights and Justice (CISORJ) has urged
the Supreme Court to save Nigeria’s democracy and the fate of the judiciary by
reversing its January 14 judgment on the Imo state governorship election. Fielding
questions from journalists, Coordinator General of the coalition, Anulikq
Umezuruike said the Supreme Court judgement since its delivery has thrown the
people of the state into mourning. She
stated that the judgement, if allowed to stand would unarguably, erode the
confidence of the people in the judiciary and raise questions and called for
the reversal of the judgement in the interest of equity, fairness and
justice. “Today,
the nation mourns not only because of thousands of people killed by Boko Haram
attacks or banditry and insurgency. We mourn for the injustice meted on
millions of Imo people by the January 14, Supreme Court judgment. “This
moment in time, recognizing the fact that the Supreme Court is manned by human
beings, prone to human errors, we in this moment of grief and bitterness hereby,
enjoins the Supreme Court to take a courageous and bold step to correct the
error of January 14. “This
is not just about Imo state. It is about justice. It is about posterity. And it
is about honour and supremacy of Nigeria’s constitution, judiciary and
democracy,” she added.