The
National Steel Task Force of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has
sealed not less than 13 steel factories across the nation over standards
infractions. Chairman of the SON Task Force on Steel, Engr. Enebi Onucheyo, on Monday, disclosed that companies located in Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Abia and the Edo States were shut until further notice following nationwide market surveillance carried out by his team between November 2019 and January 2020. Akande heads APC reconstituted national reconciliation committee He
stated that samples of various steel products were obtained from the open
market as well as the facilities of the companies during the surveillance
exercises. Enebi
stated that given the SON classification of Steel Bars as life-endangering
products,  the Nigeria industrial standards
provides for unique identification marks for every locally manufactured or
imported steel bars for easy traceability. According
to him, laboratory tests and analysis carried out on the samples revealed that
most of them failed to meet the minimum requirements for ′diameter′ and ′mass per
meter′ as provided in the Nigeria Industrial Standard (NIS 117:2004). These
Enebi said are critical parameters in the standard for reinforcement bars for
concrete. Enebi
said the shutdown exercise followed earlier warnings to all the steel manufacturing
companies on observed infractions with directives to ensure strict compliance
with the requirements of the NIS 117:2004. The
Task Force Chairman disclosed that some of the companies were found to have
tampered with products earlier placed on hold by SON in their facilities while
an unregistered identification mark “GE” was discovered in one of the
products sampled. He
stressed that the exercise would be a continuous one in furtherance of the SON
commitment to protect Nigerian Consumers from the dangers associated with
substandard and life-endangering products in view of the incessant collapse of
buildings and structures across the country. Enebi
said the exercise is also aimed at ensuring that Nigerian Consumers get optimum
value for their hard-earned money. Commenting
on the standards enforcement activity, the SON Director-General, Osita Aboloma
reiterated the need to promote quality made-in-Nigeria products preparatory
to  the implementation of the African
Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). He
said strict enforcement of conformity to the requirements of Nigeria
Industrial Standards would facilitate export, while also preventing dumping
into Nigerian Markets.