A total of 41 All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains from Talata-Mafara local government area of Zamfara state on Thursday defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Talata-Mafara is the local government area of the immediate past governor and APC leader in the state, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari.Dr. Sha’aya Shehu led the defectors  alongside and the state PDP leadership to Governor Bello Matawalle at the Government House, Gusau. Bayelsa: APC urges supporters to accept Supreme Court decision According to him,  the team: “consists of 41 political leaders who command respect across the local government area and have political structure in place. ”Shehu said their decision to join the PDP was borne out of their careful study of the Matawalle-led administration, especially on how the governor tackled insecurity and restored peace in the state within the first 100 days in office. Dr. Shehu also commended the governor for his laudable programmes and projects being executed across the state. Other speakers of the group who include Alhaji  Bello Wadata, Alhaji Abubakar Take-Tsaba, Alhaji Bello Gwaram and Alhaji Armaya’u Ahmad, extolled the positive virtues of Matawalle’s administration and promised to give their total support to the government. The Chairman of PDP in the State, Alhaji Ibrahim Mallaha said the Party had received them with open hands and assured that they would be treated like any old member of the party in the state. In his remarks of appreciation, Governor Matawalle said he was overwhelmed by the positive responses from Talata-Mafara local government. The governor recalled that when God decided to entrust him with the leadership of the state, he thought everyone would rally round him to save Zamfara from its numerous challenges. He however lamented that bitter opposition was brewed by a section of the state opposition, a situation said was uncalled for. He therefore, urged politicians in the state to join hands with his administration in order to move the state forward. “We cannot achieve the laudable goals we are aiming at in a situation of acrimony and sabotage”, he observed. Government House has been recording large turn out of decampees from opposition parties in the state.Reacting to the defection of some of his members however, the state APC Chairman, Alhaji Lawal Liman noted that the APC had also been receiving large number of decampees. “It will surprise you to know that most of the defectors we receive are from the ruling PDP in the state even though we are not in control of power. “This will confirm to you that our leadership had done well in the state and am sure those leaving now will realize their mistake and come back very soon,” Liman stated. (NAN)