The Director
General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, (NCAA) Captain Musa Nuhu has called
on aviation, journalists to focus on
developmental journalism to help bring attention to issues that are hitherto
overlooked or under-represented by other media and the stakeholders. He said these issues could border on any segment of aviation that can impact the industry by way of a policy shift or elicit a course of action. Oil prices fall for fifth day to lowest in a year Speaking at the
opening of the year 2020 League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents LAAC,
course in the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology, NCAT, Zaria, Captain Nuhu
noted that there were a plethora of issues in aviation that could be highlighted
to support the notion of the media as a tool for national development. He stressed that
there would be a significant development if developmental issues affecting
aviation is brought to the front burner, adding that aviation Industry in
Nigeria had consistently craved for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). “Our esteemed
practitioners can do well to in a most lucid way to highlight investment baskets
in the industry.” “In doing this,
the agencies will be thoroughly challenged and consequently provide an industry
that every Nigerian will be proud of. It will, therefore, be highly commendable
if the reportage is redirected and focussed on developmental activities as well
as coverage reporting”, he added. He observed
that  journalists focus more on reporting
government press releases and events, leaving little space for analysis or
evaluation of developmental issues. While urging the
media especially the aviation journalists to do more in the reportage of the
industry, he commended them for their robust contributions to the global
recognition attained by the agencies. “As a matter of
fact, the contributions of LAAC to the industry are not recent but age long and
we hope it will continue. The watchdog role of the media has undoubtedly
motivated the aviation agency and the supervising ministry to work really
hard.” Captain Nuhu
represented by the NCAA’s Regional Manager, Engr. Sanni said the zero accident
experienced in the commercial category in the last five years was due to
consistent successes in Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Recertification,
various International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Audits and the
Transport Security Administration (TSA) approvals. “It will
however, be appropriate to mention that this feat is an industry feat and not
only NCAA. The other agencies similarly deserve commendation for their roles in
the zero accident run.” On safety of
aircraft in Nigeria, Nuhu said the 
Airline Operators in Nigeria have taken self-regulation of their
operations a notch higher and much more seriously, saying that this was due to
increased awareness, quality staff and additional investment in training. “It is clear
there is no utopian situation in any human endeavour, NCAA, the agencies and
the airline operators will definitely continue to improve on noticeable grey
areas in the industry.”