The
 Managing Director/CEO, Noah’s Ark Communications Limited,
Lanre Adisa has advocated for the establishment of a unified trade body 
as the surest way towards addressing the lingering inter-sectoral 
indebtedness and
payment challenges rocking the advertising industry business environment
 in
Nigeria. According to him, the proposed trade body when fully operational should layout guidelines for business relationships between players in the industry, monitor the implementation process as well as define sanctions against breaches to protect the rights and interests of stakeholders. Edo PDP calls on NASS to legalise card reader in elections Speaking
 recently in Lagos, he specifically criticised the growing spate of 
inter-sectoral indebtedness and payment breaches amongst
business players in the industry, pointing out that there was an 
existing
lopsided in terms of  business relationship in favour of the 
multinational
clients. Reacting specifically to questions on the 120 days credit
terms currently being implemented by some multinational clients and the
resulting delays in payments to media owners and other vendors, he described
the development as one absurdity arising from perceived lack of unity of
purpose in the rank of agency practitioners. The adman maintained that there was an urgent need for
critical stakeholders and interest players on all sides of the business divide
to come together and work out a favourable business term that would be in the
interest of both the clients and agencies alike. “I think what we need is an umbrella entity that speaks as one
for our industry in a way that will let the clients know that we are in this together.
We want to succeed as you want to succeed. There is no animosity between us,
but we have to do it in a way that allows for leave and let’s leave. 
Where we are now, there is too much power in the hands of one party than the
other one,” he said. He added: “Unfortunately I don’t know what’s obtainable in
other markets, but I think what we are dealing with here is absurd just to say
the least, and I think it’s coming out of the fact that our industry is
fragmenting. We are all trying to survive and I think to me that is a big issue
that we all have to deal with. “Anywhere in the world, trade bodies exist to protect the
interest of their members and they even have their own rules. You can’t do
certain things because they will tell you ‘sorry, that’s against the rule’. And
the rules would come up based on their own experiences.” Continuing, Adisa noted: “If we have a rule that says ‘come on
120 days is not healthy for our business and for our industry’, and if the
agencies that really make the difference were to come together and say ‘stop!
This is not working; we would want to have a conversation with you guys’. I’m
sure they would listen.” Also
 commenting on insinuations that the continued incursion
by traditional marketing and management consultants into spheres of 
advertising the business was endangering the industry’s prospects 
through outsourcing
mechanisms, the agency boss observed that the development was rather 
healthy to
the business, insisting that it was needless for agency practitioners to
 raise
worries on the subject. “Well, I don’t see anything about advertising being
endangered. Personally, I think what it does is that it further brings up the
need for us to be more adept at what we do and to be able to distinguish
ourselves by our services. If we do what we do and are best at it, I’m sure
they can’t deliver what we deliver overnight as regards creating
problem-solving solutions. “I think what it calls for, personally speaking, is that
wherever you play you need to be the best at what you do, and that’s what our
industry is required to do. There is no space for mediocrity,” he concluded.