The Federal Government has called for harmony among  stakeholders in the social security schemes, in the discharge of their  mandate of harnessing comprehensive data in the schemes. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, made  the call in Abuja at a workshop on “Promoting Synergy Among Formal  Social Security Schemes and Programmes Through Improved Social Security  Data Integrity”. INEC sticks to gun to deregister 74 parties, in spite court order He stated that government would put in place, platforms for
 experts from all the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies 
(MDAs) in the social security schemes to work together to achieve 
optimum result in improving data integrity. “It is imperative that all central machinery be put in 
motion for the effective collaboration of MDAs implementing social 
security schemes to ensure proficient services.” Noting the global consensus on the importance of social 
security data for national socio-economic development, Ngige emphasised 
the importance of harnessing a comprehensive data for not only 
addressing gaps in social security schemes, but also for enhancing 
effective policy articulation by Government. The Minister noted that in view of Nigeria’s vast 
population, a comprehensive data in social security would work to 
improve workers’ productivity, bridge income inequality, enhance social 
cohesion and engender national integration, as well as aid inclusive 
economic growth. He stated that achieving the maximum gain of social 
security in Nigeria would entail adequate planning and data 
collection/collation to establish a dependable data base for all 
categories of beneficiaries and the various types of social security 
schemes provided. Citing the definition by the International Labour 
Organisation (ILO), the Minister stated that “Social Security is a set 
of public policies and programmes undertaken by the society through 
series of public measures in response to certain contingencies, to 
offset the absence or substantial reduction in income resulting from 
sickness, maternity, employment injury, unemployment, invalidity and old
 age.” Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry
 of Labour and Employment, William Alo, stated that the workshop was a 
call for strengthening and moving forward the social security focus in 
Nigeria, and an effort to achieve inclusive growth. He added that eliminating extreme poverty and putting in 
place social protection would contribute immensely to the realization of
 a number of the Sustainable Development Goals. The
 Permanent Secretary disclosed that the workshop, with the theme “One 
Stop-Shop Information Centre for Social Security in Nigeria”, would 
“review the evidence of a positive social security influence with an aim
 to analysing the relevance and implications of new improved 
technologies in data collection for national social security schemes.”