The Federal Ministry of Health has confirmed a coronavirus disease (COVID-19) case in Lagos State, Nigeria. The case which was confirmed on the 27th at February 2020, is the first case to be reported in Nigeria since the beginning at the outbreak in China in January 2020. This was contained in a statement made available to the Daily Times from the ministry of health. According to the statement,  the case was confirmed from an Italian citizen who works in Nigeria and returned from Milan, Italy to Lagos, Nigeria on February 25, 2020. He was confirmed by the Virology Laboratory at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the Laboratory Network at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The statement disclosed that the patient is clinically stable, with no serious symptoms, and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba, Logos. Reaffirming the level of preparedness,the minister of health Dr Osagie Ehanire said, “The Government of Nigeria, through the Federal Ministry of Health, has been strengthening measures to ensure an outbreak in Nigeria is controlled and contained quickly. The multi-sectoral Coronavirus Preparedness Group led by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has immediately activated its National Emergency Operations Centre and will work closely with Lagos State Health authorities to respond to this case and implement firm control measures. “I wish to assure all Nigerians that have we have been beefing up our preparedness capabilities since the first confirmation of cases in China, and we will use all the resources made available by the government to respond to this case. “We have already started working to identify all the contacts of the patient, since he entered Nigeria. Please be reminded that most people who become infected may experience only mild illness and recover easily, but It can be more severe in others, particularly the elderly and persons with other underlying chronic illnesses. All Nigerians should take core of their health and maintain hand and respiratory hygiene to protect themselves and others, including their own families, following the precautions below: “Regularly and thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water, and use alcohol-based hand sanitizer. “Maintain at least 1.5 metres (5 feet) distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. FIRS issues deadline for taxpayers to obtain TIN “Persons with persistent cough or sneezing should stay home or keep a social distance. but not mix in crowd. “Make sure you and people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene, meaning cover your mouth and nose with o handkerchief or tissue or into your sleeve at the bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. Then dispose of the used tissue immediately. “Stay home if you feel unwell with symptoms like fever, cough and difficulty in breathing. Please call NCDC toll free number, which is available day and night, for guidance: 0800 970 0000-0010. Do not engage in self-medication. “Stay informed on the latest developments about COVlD-l9 through official channels on TV and Radio, including the Lagos State Ministry of Health, NCDC and Federal Ministry of Health. “Citizens must not abuse social media and indulge in spreading misinformation that causes tear and panic. The Federal Ministry of Health. through Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, will continue to provide updates and will initiate all measures required to prevent the spread of any outbreak in Nigeria”. 