The Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory, Dr.  Ramatu Aliyu, has tasked religious leaders in the country to use their  God given positions to curb social vices bedevilling the youths. Aliyu gave the charge when a delegation of National Leader  of the Arewa Pastors Non-Denominational Initiative for Peace led by its  National chairman, Bishop John Abu Richard, paid her a courtesy call in  Abuja. Amaokpala youths embrace campaign against Lassa fever, Coronavirus The minister also used the occasion to charge clergymen in 
the country to pray against insurgency and other vices, stressing that 
the peace and stability of Nigeria is not negotiable. “It is easy for anybody or group to blame government for 
the security challenges facing us as a nation, but I must tell you that 
as religious leaders, you have a greater role to play to curb the social
 vices among our youths that could lead to a full blown terrorism. “I say this with all sense of responsibility because the 
perpetrators of this heinous crime are members of one religious group or
 the other. In fact, they are either Christians or Muslims. Therefore, 
if you use your God given position to propagate the teachings of the 
Holy Books, it will go along way in curbing the social vices among our 
youths. By so doing we have solved 50 percent of our security 
challenges”. Aliyu affirmed that recent cases of young marriages failing
 and killings among young couples could be traced to lack of good 
parenting and moral upbringing in the society. Earlier, the leader of the national chairman of National 
Leader of the Arewa Pastors Non-Denominational Initiative for Peace, 
Bishop John Abu Richard, commended the FCT Minister of State for what he
 described as “impactful transformation” embarked upon by her in less 
than a year of her appointment as minister. Richard told the minister that the group came from various 
parts of the country to identity with her remarkable successes in the 
Federal Capital Territory, just as he assured the minister of the 
group’s continuous prayers for more successes, peace and development in 
the nation’s capital under her leadership. He also commended the minister for her motherly heart in 
carrying both Muslims and Christians along in the appointment of her 
political aides with any form of religious discrimination, while 
appealing to the authority to give appointments and employments to their
 members into the Christian Pilgrim Board considering the group support 
to President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. “We
 assure you of the continuous mobilization of the strength of our 
membership to pray for President Muhammadu Buhari, yourself, the senior 
minister and support the APC government to transform Abuja to rank among
 the best 10 cities in the world and have the Nigeria of our dreams,” he
 stated.