 The Minister of State for Industry,
Trade and Investment, Amb. Mariam Yalwaji Katagum has expressed the readiness
of the Federal Government to partner the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO) in order to boost the nation’s creative
industry by creating an enabling environment for the industry to thrive. The Minister made this known when she received a concept note on the development of cultural and creative industry from a joint delegation from UNESCO and UNIDO led by the Regional Director, UNESCO Regional Office, Abuja. EXMAN canvasses FG’s partnership with industry practitioners The Minister described creative
industry as an area that should be explored for economic growth, foreign direct
investment as well as exporting of Made in Nigeria Products. Amb. Katagum stated that
“These are the kinds of thing the creative industry does, not only photo
portrait but fashion, music, all these things that are artistic, practically
created. But you need to also create an enabling environment for this industry to
thrive. We see in a lot of other countries how they create a type of hobby for
them to sit down, teach them how to experiment, exchange ideas, basically with
government’s support in order to enable them thrive. I think this is an
important area and it is an area that helps in the growth of the economy, it
brings in a lot of foreign direct investments, to enable people export Made in
Nigeria Products.” She said that the federal government would continue to guarantee policies, programmes and initiatives that
will attract and create enabling environment for investments to thrive and
create economic value. In his remarks, the Permanent
Secretary in the Ministry, Dr Nasir Sani- Gwarzoi, said the economic growth
and development being made by   developed countries were made
possible by artisans, saying that, “It’s artisans that lead development in
developed countries; here we are promoting only the formal sector. The concept
note will open up a new area of investment for us” Gwarzo stated. In his earlier remarks, the leader
of the joint delegation, the Regional Director, UNESCO Regional Office, Abuja,
Ydo Yao said the purpose of their visit was to present a concept note on
cultural and creative industry to the Ministry in order to have its feedback on
the best way to move the industry forward thereby creating job opportunities
for women and unemployed youth not only in Nigeria but Africa at large. According to him, “UNESCO and UNIDO
decided to come together to promote  cultural and creative arts in the country,
when you look at  creativity  and the youth  in Africa, it is
sad that we are not exploiting it enough  for  job creation in
Africa”, the regional director stated.