The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State 
Chapter, on Monday cautioned commercial bus drivers against hike in 
fares over the ban and restriction of motorcycles and tricycles’ 
operations in the state. The state Chairman of the NURTW, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly 
known as MC Oluomo, gave the caution in a statement in Lagos. Akinsanya said that the warning became imperative following 
complaints from members of public, alleging commercial drivers of taking
 advantage of the ban to inflict more pains on the commuters. The NURTW boss said that no commercial driver should inflate the  fares so as not to multiply the pains of commuters in the state. 100 Islamic scholars begin 3-day fasting/prayers for national unity, stability He warned that anyone caught in the act would be dealt with in line with the rules and regulations of the union. Akinsanya directed that all the branch chairmen of the union should 
monitor the fares and ensure that the commercial bus drivers did not 
worsen the plight of the people. According to him, members of the union should not extort people as a 
result of the ban of motorcycle and tricycle operations in some parts of
 the metropolis. He said that the leadership of the union had been making moves to 
resolve the issue of the motorcycles and tricycles’ ban with the Lagos 
State Government. “The union is also working assiduously with investors to inject more 
buses and increase the number of commercial vehicles in the metropolis 
to ease the hardship faced as a result of the ban. “We advise both the commercial drivers and Tricycle Owners 
Association of Nigeria (TOAN) and Motorcycle Operators Association of 
Lagos (MOALS) to be patient and cooperate with Lagos State Traffic 
Management Authority officials, obey traffic law. “It’s an offence to drive on BRT lanes or drive against traffic. Obey
 the traffic laws and regulations, comport yourself orderly,” the NURTW 
chairman said. The state government on Feb. 1, commenced enforcement of the extant 
Transport Sector Reform Law 2018 banning operations of motorcycles and 
tricycles in some LGAs and LCDAs and restricted them from some highways,
 bridges and roads.