Thousands of people rallied in Dresden on Monday evening against Germany’s anti-Islam and xenophobic Pegida movement as it took to the streets for the 200th time since its creation in 2014. Thousands also gathered at the Pegida rally, which was attended by Bjoern Hoecke of the Alternative for Germany (AfD). He is one of the far-right party’s most contentious figures and has been accused of employing Nazi rhetoric in his speeches. Read also: Hospital director in Wuhan dies of Covid-19 The duelling rallies were held within sight of each other. The anti-Pegida protesters filled Dresden’s Neumarkt square, carrying posters reading “Grandmas against the right” and “red card for Nazis.” The opponents to Pegida, which stands for “Patriotic Europeans against the Islamization of the West,” made so much noise that the Pegida leaders complained and threatened to call off planned speeches, according to reports by local media. The organizers of the counter event had said beforehand they expected 1,000 people to attend but by 8 pm on Monday evening, they estimated that 2,500 had come to their side. There was broad public opposition to the Pegida event in the eastern city of Dresden, with Monday’s effort supported by Germany’s bigger parties too. Local chapters of Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP) called for a counter-protest under the slogan “Democracy needs backbone.” Those backing the initiative also include the Association of Jewish Communities in Saxony, the Catholic Church and the state’s Protestant Church. State premier Michael Kretschmer and several of his ministers have offered support in a private capacity. Hocke’s attendance proved controversial within the AfD. Pegida’s leader, Lutz Bachmann, is a repeat offender who has been convicted, among other things, for incitement. The movement has recently lost considerable support. AfD executive board member Alexander Wolf told dpa that Hoecke’s attendance is risky ahead of elections in the city of Hamburg on Sunday. “As legitimate as the issue may be, a demonstration does always hold risks because you cannot control who takes part,” he said. In the past, Hocke has said that he values Pegida, and in 2016 said in a party speech that “without them, the AfD would not be where it is.” Pegida held its first protest in Dresden on October 20, 2014, mobilizing people against Islam, refugees and the “Merkel dictatorship.” At its height tens of thousands of people took part, although the numbers have fallen sharply along with the media’s interest. (dpa)