A member representing Misau/Dambam federal constituency in
the National Assembly, Hon. Ibrahim Makama has distributed about N10 million to
petty traders and small scale business owners in his Constituency to boost
their business ventures. The legislative aide to the House of Representatives member in Misau, Alhaji Garba Modibbo Misau who stated this in an interview with journalists on Saturday in Bauchi said that his principal decided to distribute the money to the beneficiaries as part of his efforts to support them with the needed capital to further boost their businesses. Court grants EFCC leave to change prosecution witness in Fayose’s trial He said that over two hundred petty traders benefited from
the N10 million where category A went home with one hundred thousand naira each
while others got fifty thousand naira and thirty thousand naira each
respectively. “We are targeting petty traders in our constituency,
most especially those in urban areas to support them with cash that will
enhance their businesses because we have looked at the kind of business that is
going on which we believe needs support from our leaders and that’s why he is
supporting his constituents with cash today that will enhance their businesses,”
he explained. Modibbo who noted that the beneficiaries were selected
within Misau/Dambam constituency said most of them were those who tirelessly
worked during electioneering campaigns whom the lawmaker promised to reciprocate
if he emerged victorious. “So, going by their large number we have decided to
categorise them into batches, their batch A of which we are now done with them
today and we are now looking forward to the second batch,” he said. Modibbo added that, “Honourable Makama in his wisdom
decided to, following our in-depth research, realised that those that are in
the business need a kind of additional capital that can help them enhance their
businesses, and he has given them today.” The aide explained that the utilisation of the funds
distributed and its impact would be assessed in order to see how the future
program would be carried out and who are going to benefit from the gesture. “You know we are in politics, during our campaigns we
made promises in each ward that we visited, now that we have won, we decided to
take inventory of those that needed our support, in terms of capital,
employment or educational support. So, now what we have started is the
distribution of cash in fulfillment of our pledges, we targeted about two
hundred and fifty people for a start and we have given them the money as
promised.” Modibbo who said his boss had recently assisted some
students from various tertiary institutions across the country with undisclosed
amounts of money explained that, “we intend to focus on education,
empowerment for women and youth, health and then community services, there are
our four aims and objectives that we plan to execute this tenure.” According to him, apart from the distribution of funds to
his constituents, his boss has equally embarked on community projects where
solar power are being installed in large number of villages and towns in his
constituency. “Honourable Ibrahim Makama has also rehabilitated some
hand pump boreholes, wells among other community services to meet the various
needs of our people which we promised to meet during our campaigns,”
Modibbo enumerated. “Recently, there was a joint motion between Hon Faggo
and Hon Makama for the rehabilitation of road from Kari to Kano which some
parts of the road has become dilapidated, causing accidents. We are hoping that
work will soon commence there,” Modibbo recalled. According to him, the rehabilitation work when completed
will not only enhance economic activities in the area, but will significantly
reduce road carnages on the highways. Also collaborating, the legislative aide to the
representatives member, Musa Umar  said
that his principal’s quality representation is spread across the Misau/Dambam
Local Government Areas regardless of party, religious or ethnic differences.