Disturbed over the
continued traffic congestion experienced in the nation’s capital at peak
periods, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Administration has barred
personnel of the Directorate of Road Traffic Services from inspecting vehicle
particulars on roads in the city before 10am each day. According to a statement signed by the Chairman, FCT Ministerial Task Team on Traffic Management, Ikharo Attah, the directive followed series of complaints from residents of the city that the checking of vehicles from 9am has compounded the traffic snarl in the territory and has led to the loss of man hours. Court orders full medical care for El-Zakzaky, wife Our correspondent recalls
that the FCTA had earlier ordered that vehicle inspection should commence from
9am, but according to Attah, after series of meetings with stakeholders, an
additional hour was added so as to avoid clogging the roads during the early
morning rush hour. Similarly, the administration
also sustained the restriction earlier handed on the movement of heavy duty
vehicles in the territory to off-peak periods even as he warned that severe
sanctions await those who violate the policy. “By this
order, the road traffic officers of various agencies must focus on freeing
traffic from 5am to 10am in the morning. They are to commence checking of
vehicles and their particulars from 10am across the city. “The
enforcement does not affect the stopping and arrest of heavy duty vehicles
driving during peak traffic periods. Any such vehicle must be stopped from
plying the road in accordance with approved policy to avert fatal road crashes
occasioned by break failures usually associated with such heavy duty vehicles,”
he stated. Reacting to claims
that traffic officials were responsible for the traffic congestion recorded in the
evenings along the Abuja-Keffi Road, Ikharo Attah said that traffic officers
stationed in the evening are for the sustenance of seamless flow of traffic and
not to check vehicle documents. He however, warned
that the shift in the commencement of vehicles inspection time is not a licence
for drivers of rickety vehicles to flood the city in the morning.