Industry experts at
this year edition of the annual business outlook seminar of the Association of
Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN) were optimistic that the Nigerian economy
was heading hopefully towards a positive turn-around in the foreseeable future. For the team of
discussants at the one-day seminar, their optimism on the economy were based on
the recent emerging economic indices from the Federal Government, suggesting that
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the country would grow by unprecedented 2.4 per cent in the course of the current year. The seminar which was
held in Lagos recently, was well attended, drawing together a convergence of
foremost practitioners in advertising, notably among whom were the Group
Chairman of STB McCann, Sir Steve Omojafor, erstwhile Managing Director of LTC
Advertising, and Mrs. Bola Thomas. The roll call of
attendees at the event included several heads of advertising agencies and other
industry stakeholders cutting across Nigeria’s Marketing and Marketing
Communications Industry spheres. The event, which had
as its theme “Nigerian Business Environment in the year 2020: Implications for
Advertising Agencies”, was critically addressed by various distinguished
marketing personalities are drawn from across the sectoral groupings namely, the
media, clients organisations and management consultancy side. The keynote Speaker,
former Managing Director of Diamond Bank Plc and Senior Partner, Anderson Tax
Consultants, Emeka Onwuka took the audience through the latest available
demography on economic development in Nigeria, expressing positive hopes that
based on currently emerging indices, “things were turning positively favorable
for the Nigerian economy”. According to him, despite the generally perceived downturn in the economy as experienced in 2019, some sectors of the economy continued to record positive growth, especially with regards to the agricultural and non-oil sector in general. JEDC proposes 10.5% electricity tariff increase He
 observed that what
was most cheering was the general indication that the economy would grow
 by 2.4 per cent in the course of the current year, pointing out that 
the projected
growth would be made possible judging by certain economic policies of
government such as among other things, the early passage of the yearly 
budget,
favourable oil prices and growing activities in the non-oil sector of 
the
economy, especially agriculture. Speaking also at the event, Olu Akanmu, one of the panellists, and Executive Director at FCMB Plc observed
that irrespective of the emerging economic indices on the economy, Nigeria
remained still a very poor country with one out of every two Nigerian living
below the poverty line. He said that based on
the current economic realities in the country, what agency business
practitioners needed to do was to look within and address their business
challenges by changing their business models, and embracing more of emerging
digital technology experience for their business to thrive.