A high
court sitting in Lokoja, Kogi state has declared the action of removing the
former Deputy Governor of the state, Chief Simon Achuba by the Kogi state House
of Assembly as illegal and unconstitutional. The presiding judge, Justice John Olorunfemi while delivering judgement on the matter in Lokoja yesterday, described the action of the state assembly as “legislative rascality.” ‘National Gallery of Arts deserves a befitting edifice- Board chairman He
posited that since the seven-man panel set up by the state chief judge to
investigate the allegation of gross misconduct against the claimant by the
state assembly submitted that the allegation could not be proved, further
action on the matter ought to have been discontinued based on Section 188 of
the constitution. The judge
therefore, wondered why those that ordinarily ought to make laws for the
good governance of the country would turn out to be law- breakers and
subsequently, held that the removal of the claimant by the first to the 25th
defendants amount to flagrant abuse of the constitution. Justice
Olorunfemi further held that the swearing in of the 29th defendants
by the chief judge after his nomination and confirmation by the state assembly
was in order, as the 30th defender was simply performing his
constitutional role being the chief judge of the state. He
therefore, stressed the need for legal practitioners to always watch their
utterances, instead of portraying the judiciary or the court in bad light,
being co-worshippers in the temple of justice. On the
whole, the presiding judge, pointed out that the first to the 25th
defendants have failed woefully in their legal antics to frustrate the suit and
held that their removal of the claimant was unconstitutional, invalid, and
subsequently, granted all the reliefs sought. Reacting
to the judgement, Ojonimi Apeh, who represented Jibrin Okutepa (SAN), counsel
to Achuba described the court’s decision as a victory for democracy and the
rule of law. He
commended the judge for the well considered judgement and the industry put into
writing the judgement, adding however, that they are prepared to meet their
opponents in the appeal court, if they are not satisfied with the decision of
the lower court. Also
speaking, counsel to the first to 25th defendants, Isaac Ekpa, said
he would get a copy of the judgement, study it with a view to advising his
clients appropriately. Equally,
in his reaction, counsel to the 30th defendant, Yemi Mohammed commended
the presiding judge for the judgement, saying the decision by the chief judge
to swear- in the new deputy governor was purely to discharge his constitutional
duties. He
opined that his client cannot be blamed for not declining to swear -in the new
deputy governor, since there was no injunction preventing him from going ahead
with such action.