One
unfortunate legacy that the bill for the establishment of an agency for
rehabilitation of members of the terrorist group, Boko Haram, will bequeath
Nigeria and Nigerians if it eventually passes at the Senate and House of
Representatives and gets presidential assent, is an unending reign of terror by
insurgent/criminal gangs who will compete in unleashing violence on Nigerians
knowing that amnesty awaits them at the end of the day. Recall that a bill proposing the establishment of a national agency to cater for repentant members of the dreaded Boko Haram sect and other insurgent groups in the country passed first reading on the floor of the Senate on Thursday. Lawyer drags Imo speaker, 19 lawmakers to  court The bill
titled “National Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De –
radicalization and Integration of Repentant Insurgents in Nigeria (Est, etc)
Bill, 2020) SB 340), is sponsored by the former governor of Yobe State, Senator
Ibrahim Geidam, representing Yobe East. Extract
from the bill reads: “The main aim of this Bill is to among others to
provide avenue for rehabilitating, de-radicalizing, educating and reintegrating
the defectors, repentant and detained members of the insurgent group, Boko
Haram, to make them useful members of the society”. Geidan,
the sponsor of the bill, believes that the agency, if established, will
“help disintegrate the violent and poisonous ideology that the group
spreads as the programme will enable some convicted or suspected terrorists to
express remorse over their actions, repent and recant their violent ideology
and re-enter mainstream politics, religion and society”. While we
see nothing wrong in rehabilitating and de-radicalizing repentant members of
the insurgent group, as already been carried out by the Nigerian Army in some
North East states, we strongly oppose establishing a distinct and permanent
national agency for them. Doing so will have a lot of negative implications,
including of course giving impetus to insurgents and their backers to continue
to terrorize and hold Nigeria to ransom. A permanent agency for repentant Boko
Haram members, in our opinion, is also a clear indication that we have
surrendered to insurgents and that insurgency is here to stay. We join therefore
join well-meaning Nigerians to condemn this bill  and demand that it be
withdrawn immediately as it not only offends the sensibilities of a great
percentage of Nigerians who have suffered severely as a result of attacks by
Boko Haram insurgents, but gives the impression that we are a country that
rewards outlaws. Again,
there is already in existence several interventions by the Federal Government
targeted at improving the lots of insurgency ravaged states including the North
East Development Commission, which we believe should be saddled with the
responsibility of de-radicalizing repentant members of the insurgent group in
addition to its mandates. Creating
another agency solely for rehabilitating, de-radicalizing, educating and
reintegrating defectors, repentant and detained members of Boko Haram, in our
opinion, is not only unnecessary but will enlarge the nation’s bureaucracy and
aggravate the cost of governance which Nigerians all agree is way too high. Finally,
it is our opinion that Nigeria should not reward outlaws, which the National
Agency for the Education, Rehabilitation, De – radicalization and Integration
of Repentant Insurgents in Nigeria (Est, etc) Bill, 2020) SB 340) bill may
eventually turn out to do. Any move that gives the impression that we are
rewarding outlaws, we believe, will ultimately embolden others to toe such
path.