Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa has hailed the Federal Government for increasing  Corps members allowance in line with the new National Minimum Wage. The NYSC Director, Press and Public Relations, Adenike Adeyemi, in a statement issued said the governor made the remark when the NYSC Director-General, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House, Asaba. Nigerian students re-enact NYSC experience at University of Arkansas Okowa, who noted the imperative of encouraging Corps members as they rendered patriotic service to the nation, said his administration would sustain its own strides towards enhancing their welfare. The Governor spoke glowingly about the existing cordial relationship between the State Government and NYSC, adding that the administration would continue to support the Scheme. He said the State Government had already executed several intervention projects at the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp in the State and would do more this year. He said his administration’s support was based on the need to provide congenial working environment for Corps members whom he commended for their selfless service, especially their high sense of responsibility and neutrality in the conduct of election duties. “I must appreciate the Federal Government for increasing Corps Members’ allowance”, Okowa said. The Governor, who noted the role of NYSC in the promotion of National Unity, also praised the Management for siting the South -South Area Office of the Scheme in Asaba, the State Capital. He assured of  continued  support even as he said the request for operational vehicle for the Area Office would be looked into. Earlier, the Director-General Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim had appreciated the Governor for the various  gestures of his administration in support of the NYSC, especially in the area of security and prompt payment of Corps members’ allowance. He thanked him for the construction and renovation of hostels and other structures at the Permanent  Orientation Camp, Issele-Uku noting that the projects would go a long way in aiding the smooth operation of the Scheme. “We cannot thank you enough for your tremendous support for NYSC Delta State.NYSC will always be available to assist the State as much as we can and on behalf of the staff and Corps Members nationwide l thank you”, he said. The Director-General also explained that the friendly and supportive disposition of the Delta State Government informed the Management’s decision to site the Headquarters of the NYSC South South Area Office in Asaba, the State Capital. He thanked the Governor for the provision of office accommodation for the Area Office, and went on to request further assistance in the provision of operational vehicle for the Area Coordinator.