Interswitch
Limited and American Express (AmEx) have announced a new partnership to expand
the usage and acceptance of American Express (AmEx) cards across Nigeria. The partnership with Interswitch will enable American Express Cardmembers to transact, using a wide range of merchants, who process payments through the Interswitch platform, for a range of travel, retail, hospitality and dining expenses, as well as ATM withdrawals. Dabiri-Erewa, others charge Africans in Diaspora to remember their roots The partnership
will also allow Interswitch to integrate its network of merchants in Nigeria
into the global American Express network. As part of the agreement, Interswitch will assume responsibility for managing American Express
merchants in Nigeria, while bringing new merchants onto its platform.
Previously, American Express Cardmembers could only use their cards at select
locations across the country. This new partnership broadens that acceptance to
Interswitch merchants, ATMs and websites nationwide. Akeem Lawal,
Divisional Chief Executive Officer for Payment Processing at Interswitch said:
“AmEx and Interswitch are aligned in our desire to provide fast and secure
payment solutions and transactions across Nigeria. With this new partnership,
we are improving AmEx Cardmember access to a convenient and secure network,
which also benefits our merchants who will gain new opportunities presented by
an expanded user base. By remaining card scheme neutral, Interswitch will
continue to explore innovative partnerships that will benefit consumers and
retailers alike.” Lawal also
reiterated the commitment of Interswitch to reliably cater to its valued
merchants, to reinforce the Company’s mantra of ‘Transaction solutions you can
depend on’. He recommended new merchants join the Interswitch platform,
highlighting that the addition of American Express cards can help to expand
their businesses. Vivi Galani,
Vice President & General Manager, Global Network Partnerships EMEA for
American Express, stated that the new partnership reinforced American Express’s
role as a leading global network. “We are excited
to be partnering with Interswitch, a well-respected pan-African financial
technology company, to continue to grow our presence in Nigeria. As we partner
with leading banks and financial institutions around the world, we are bringing
the powerful backing of the American Express network to Cardmembers and
merchants by expanding acceptance of our Cards”, she said.