As part of efforts to ensure the free flow of traffic within the
nation’s capital, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) yesterday
demolished all encroachments on roads corridors in Dutse Alhaji, in Bwari Area
Council. This according to the Chairman, Ministerial Tasks Team on Free Flow of Traffic, Ikharo Attah, will not only help in opening the traffic for commuters, but will also help in ensuring that contractors return to site on the road. Group launches state of art hand -wash station for IDPs Explaining further, Attah said
after advancing payments for the construction of the Dutse Alhaji-Bwari Road,
the administration received series of complaints from contractors that some
individuals requested for N100 million as compensation before they can be
allowed to work on the road, a development FCTA strongly frowned against. “Before now, Dutse Alhaji
use to have gridlock caused by the contractor’s working in the road. The
contractors called us that they will not be able to work from the Dutse stretch
to after the first gate. “They told us that some
people demanded settlement from them before they could work on the road. We
felt that was wrong because the road belongs to the Federal Capital Territory
Administration. “The people claimed to have had an agreement to run a parking
space in the market and demanded that the contractors should pay them N100 million. “So, we went there early
in the morning and cleared the entire alignment stretch. We had to touch one of
the ATM there because it was wrongly located in contravention with the plan. We
also touched a particular fence belonging to a religious organisation that was
on the road. “Immediately we were done,
we called the contractor and told him to quickly speed up the work so that residents
will not suffer because of traffic gridlock in that area,” Attah stated. While revealing that those
demanding for compensation had an agreement with the Bwari Area Council to
manage the parking space along the road corridor, Attah noted that the alleged
agreement cannot stand considering the fact that the land in question is FCTA’s
property. “The agreement they had
with Bwari Area Council cannot stand on an FCTA property because it did not
affect the market parking space. Anything before the electric pole is part of
the road alignment,” he stated. Speaking on the interest group
who wanted to be compensated, Attah maintained that the road does not belong to
Bwari Area Council and as such the FCTA is not bound by the agreement. He also revealed that the said
agreement signed with the former Bwari Area Council chairman had a clause that
“at the point of revocation or termination of the contract, the area council
will not be obliged to pay anything.”