The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi and the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Adams, have thrown their weights behind the immediate legislative backing for the South West security outfits, code named “Operation Amotekun”. The duo spoke at the 2020 edition of Oodua Festival in Ile-Ife, Osun State. The foremost Yoruba Monarch, however, admonished South West legislatures in their respective states to fast track the process that would make Amotekun lawful and achievable. “In Yoruba land and across the South West, things have changed with the introduction of Amotekun. I am happy for the South West governors and this victory actually reflects the fact that there is little we can  achieve without unity, that is why I am appealing to all traditional rulers to work at ensuring that Amotekun come to stay,” Adeyeye said Meanwhile, the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, also reiterated the need to  legalise the new initiative, stressing that Nigerians abroad can now bring investors that can help develop the country. “The victory achieved through Amotekun showcases the beauty of having all of us speak in one voice. “It shows that in unity, everything is possible. So I am using this opportunity to appeal to all the states’ Houses of Assembly to do the needful by legislating the  initiative, by giving it the necessary legal backing. When this is done, we can be sure of winning the war for a better future. “Now that Operation Amotekun has come to stay, many of our members that came from abroad, across the 87 countries, where OPU is presently located are happy that the South West is safe for them. “They can now leverage on this new opportunity to bring investors into the country. It is not enough to have them abroad, it is good and ideal if they can  come back home, bring investors that can help develop the South West for us. “This is possible if we can create the enabling environment for them. There are hopes in eco-tourism, there are hopes in developing agric-tourism, there are hopes in arts and sports tourism as it is done in the developed climes, ” Adams said. Read Also: Battle to get payment of pensions details of former govs SERAP wins round one The guest lecturer, Dr. Abiodun Agboola from Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in his remarks said the Yoruba culture is like a nexus that can lead the race to greatness. He said foreigners would rather promote their culture and tradition. “Those that colonised us will never abandon their culture and tradition. They usually add other culture instead, they would  cultivate the habit of embracing other people’s culture.” He said in Yorubaland, there is visible and invisible culture. “I am appealing to everybody, don’t ignore our culture and tradition.”