The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has disclosed plans to commence
recycling of mutilated naira notes by partnering with private firms in the country. The apex bank disclosed that although it destroys
about 100 tonnes of bad naira notes weekly through open-air burning at the 12
disposal centres stationed across the country. The regulator attributed the initiative to the
negative effects of open-air burning in the environment as it can be
detrimental to health. It is also against the industry’s Sustainable Banking
Principles. The CBN made this announcement in a notice titled,
‘Request for Proposal for the Recycling of Paper Banknote Wastes.’ The notice read in part, “The destruction of unfit
banknotes in Nigeria is carried out by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) under
strict security and environmentally sustainable manner. Section 18(d) of the
CBN Act 2007 authorised The bank to arrange for the destruction of the currency
notes and coins were withdrawn from circulation under the provision of section 20(3)
of the said Act or otherwise found by the Bank to be unfit for use. “The banknotes disposal operation is presently carried
out in 12 disposal centres across the country weekly where about 100 tonnes of
paper banknote wastes are generated. These wastes are destroyed through
open-air burning in sites owned by the bank or rented, usually from the
respective State Governments. “Paper banknote wastes disposal by open-air burning impacts negatively on the environment thereby causing pollution and health hazards. The CBN in pursuance of its sustainability initiatives has reviewed the current method of banknote wastes disposal through open-air burning with the aim of adopting a more environmentally sustainable method thereby reducing its carbon footprint.” GenCos fail to generate 3,067.5 megawatts due to gas shortage The apex bank said it was seeking proposals from
accredited recycling companies interested in utilizing paper banknote wastes in
its recycling process. “The purpose of this Request for Proposal (RFP)
is to solicit competitive proposals from reputable companies that can recycle
CBN paper banknote wastes into useable products that can be beneficial to the
nation while adhering to Health Safety and Environment (HSE) standards,” the
notice added.