The Chinese Embassy in Nigeria said on Tuesday that it has not stopped the issuance of visas to Nigerians wishing to travel to China. The embassy’s Press Officer, Sun Sai Xiong, who made this clarification in a telephone interview, stated that the embassy has also not suspended its operation as earlier reported. He reiterated the Chinese government’s commitment to safe-guarding the lives of Nigerians and other nationals living in that country in the face of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the Asian country. Briefing newsmen on the coronavirus situation in that country on Monday, the embassy had said that effective measures to contain the scourge have been adopted. China’s Ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian, told newsmen that China has taken the most comprehensive, rigorous containment and mitigation measures beyond the requirements of international health regulations to prevent a further spread of the virus. Zhou said that by such measures, China is not only safe-guarding the health of its people, but also that of other people around the world. READ ALSO: Public schools urged to solicit assistance of alma mata for development According to him, checking the spread of the coronavirus disease is a common concern of the international community. “Life comes first. The Chinese government is committed to safeguarding the lives and health of the Chinese people. “We will in a responsible manner, safeguard the life of every foreign national in China and address their legitimate concerns in a timely manner. “We will continue to strengthen communication and coordination with the international community and work hand in hand for the prevention and control of the epidemic,’’ he said. Also, the Chinese envoy advised other countries to adopt a responsible attitude, work together to combat the virus and avoid over-reaction that may result in more negative spill-over effects. He added that a total of 60 Nigerians were living in Wuhan City where the virus broke out from, adding that no Nigerian in China has been infected. Zhou said that the authorities were maintaining regular communication with them in case of any need for assistance.