The Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yoruba Land, Iba Gani Adams has
said that South West security outfit, codenamed ‘Amotekun’ would attract more
investors into the zone and improve the nation’s economy. Adams, spoke with newsmen after A-Day Stakeholders’ Forum on
“A Bill for a Law to Amend the Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps
Agency Law, 2019 to Establish Lagos Amotekun Corps”. Our Correspondent reports that the Public Hearing was organised by the Lagos State House of Assembly’s House Committee on Information, Strategy and Security headed by Hon. Tunde Braimoh. “Amotekun is a welcome development, psychologically it
will send signal to the criminals that Yoruba people are ready to maintain law
and order and complement the efforts security agencies in Nigeria. “As a matter of fact if South-West is well secured, the
investors will troop in to the zone and it will be an advantage to the economy
of Nigeria. If the economy of the country is booming, it is not only the South
West that will benefit from it. “The common wealth will be shared to other
regions,” the Aare said. According to him, the outfit will give an opportunity for
various people in their communities to secure their areas and gather
intelligence for the other security organisations and even the government
agencies. “Amotekun is not meant to or going to harm any ethnic
nationality. Amotekun is not an enemy of non-Yoruba people. The non Yoruba
people have been residing in Lagos for more than 200 years. “We are not tribalistic and we believe in justice and
fair play. We believe that irrespective of where you come from, you are a
Lagosians, you are a Westerner in as much that you are not a criminal. “When you are a criminal, you are an enemy of Amotekun;
you are enemy of Yoruba land. By the time you are leaving and believing in law
and order, there won’t be a problem. “I am telling you categorical, the fear of some people
is that we are trying to create a state police, it is not,” he added. He said that the governor and the parliament requested the
Nigeria Police to license the operatives of Amotekun with guns. He urged the pessimist to come to terms with the benefit the creation of Amotekun will bring to the nation. Appellants seek S’ Court recognition of Ogiamien of Benin The Aare noted that some statements from some group about
the outfit, especially Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) were
provocative. Adams said that the South West would remain focused and
resist every prompt to react. He said that Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) was feared by most
of the pessimists about the outfit. The Aare commended Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State
and the Lagos State House of Assembly for the public hearing on the outfit,
saying it was for the good of the Yoruba race. He said that the outfit would feature members of OPC,
hunters, vigilante, Agbekoya, Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps (LNSC),
saying that the LNSC could not do it alone. “This is a conventional way of empowering the Amotekun
to face the hardened criminals. This is not about watching, giving intelligence
reports to police, but about confronting hardened criminals who want to
destroy, kill and cause nuisance to our region. “All groups that are good about security issues should
be employed into the outfit. It is not about OPC. All Yoruba groups that are about
security should secure Yoruba land,” he said. Speaking to newsmen, Braimoh said that security of lives and
property in Yoruba land remained non negotiable and the people’s
representatives in the Lagos Assembly have prioritised security and welfare of
the people. The chairman, who commended the support and contributions of
religious organisations, civil society groups, opposition parties like Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP) among others, described their remarks as ‘brilliant’ and
thought provoking’. Our  Correspondent reports that the stakeholders’ meeting was well attended by all stakeholders.