Former Deputy
Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, and presidential candidate of the
Young Progressive Party, YPP, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, has called on the federal
government to make Nnewi a full manufacturing hub in Nigeria to serve as a
panacea for the chase for foreign investment. Moghalu, who made the call recently during the Nnewi 2020 Investment Summit contended that Nnewi would hardly become a successful manufacturing hub based on the efforts of the private sector alone hence the need for the federal government to provide the necessary amenities to make businesses thrive in the area. Group launches state of art hand -wash station for IDPs Muoghalu who was
the lead speaker at the event lamented that the federal and state governments
in Nigeria are always on the move, looking for foreign investments, when it
could support a huge manufacturing hub like Nnewi to reach its limit and in
turn help in growing the nation’s economy. He said,
“Nnewi is the only industrial town in the whole world that is growing
without the support of the government. A huge manufacturing hub that was started
from the scratch by indigenes of the town and has continued to grow without the
support of the government. “It will
not be out of place to say that the federal government has abandoned Nnewi. Do
you know what people in Nnewi will do if what government did at the Lekki Free
Trade Zone is done here? “Let me
tell you, the manufacturing sector is the easiest way to grow the economy of a
country. It doesn’t matter the number of mineral resources you have. How many
mineral resources does China have? You can only survive by manufacturing and
exporting your products, and that is why China is surviving today. “That is
why I always say that the chase for foreign Investment is a wild goose chase.
If you create the right environment, investments will come. Money knows where
to go and multiply, you do not need to go asking it to come. Instead of pumping
in Naira to rival the dollar, why not create a manufacturing hub and once
products are exported and foreign exchange is earned, you will see the economy
grow on its own,” Muoghalu said. Muoghalu also
tasked the Nnewi business community to show maximum interest in politics. He
contended that politics influences public policy and that when the right kind
of people are in  political offices with
ideas that can drive business and manufacturing, then, businesses would not face
as many problems as they were facing presently in Nigeria. Mr
 Kelechi
Nwosu, the CEO of TBWA, a leading marketing company and co-sponsors of 
the event in his welcome address said that the summit is an inaugural 
event put
together to rub minds on ways to scale up growth in Nnewi. Earlier,
 the member representing Nnewi North, Nnewi South and Ekwusigo 
Constituency at the national assembly, Hon. Chris Emeka Azubogu said the
 dream of the greater
Nnewi industrial hub could be achieved when the government provide 
needed
infrastructure to drive manufacturing and also reshape policies that 
would help
drive industries. According to
him, “Government has to work hard to ensure that the policy on energising
the economy works in Nnewi. Again, Nnewi business community has to generate
power locally; I mean independent power source. When we get reliable,
affordable and sustainable energy and support it with what we are getting from
the national grid, it will stimulate both economic and industrial growth.”