A group, the South East Coalition For Good Governance has decried the media trial of the former Governor of Abia state, Senator Theodore Orji and the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Chinedum Orji on frivolous and laughable allegations. In a press statement on Monday made available to newsmen in Owerri, the Imo state capital and signed by Josiah Madunagu and Madumere Alexander, president and secretary of the organization respectively, observed that the purveyors of such wicked allegations should bury their heads in shame for attempting to drag the name of an outstanding legacy governor and his son to the mud. The group insisted that the gang up against the former first family would fail ab initio, for no other reason than the frivolity of the allegations against the senator and his son. “If the petitioners had submitted their jaundiced piece to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and allowed the anti- corruption agency to do their investigations and come out with their findings, the coalition would not have intervened. “But, we are miffed to note that this was not the case as the petitioners and their paymasters went on a media trial to ingloriously and unabashedly destroy the good family name garnered over 35 years in the civil service and over 20 years of service to the people and still counting,” the coalition added. The group maintained that while not holding brief for Sen. Orji and his family, but to say that the administration of Sen. Orji as governor of Abia state was undermined by financial heist is to say the least most uncharitable and unforgivable. “Where shall we commence? The construction and equipping of the ultra-modern international conference centre reputed to be of international standard which has hosted government and non-government activities. The ultra-modern secretariat complex, the Abia state Diagnostics Hospital, the children hospital inside the premises of Amachara General Hospital and many others constructed by the Orji administration,” it added. The group commended the return of Abia state as the safest state in the country following the dislodging of kidnapping and armed robbery gangs, construction of the Ohiya power station, which made it possible for Umuahia and environs to enjoy steady power supply under the Orji administration. READ ALSO: Conductor allegedly steals passenger’s ATM, withdraws N82, 000 “Is it also possible to forget in a hurry that while so many states in Nigeria were insolvent, Abia state was one of the four adjudged to be healthy, or that at a time when borrowing from the stock market was novel, Sen. Orji was among the very few that did not borrow. “Or that while some of his colleague governors were busy globetrotting, he ensured that his visits outside Nigeria were for the good of Abians?” the coalition stated.