Board member and a former Group Chief Executive Officer of Ethiopian Airlines, Ato Girma Wake said the whole of Africa is looking at Nigeria for the setting up of her national carrier, hinting that the airline would help to retain market share for African routes dominated by foreign airlines. The airline chief, however, stated that Nigeria needs financial discipline to run a very successful airline. FAAN sensitises stakeholders on airport service quality Wake who spoke at the on-going African Aviation MRO convened
by Chairman, African Business Aviation Association (AfBAA) and the Chief
Executive Officer, African Aviation Services Limited, Nick Fadugba in Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia lamented that 80 per cent of the continent’s carriers are
losing profit because of the domination of foreign in their airspace. He disclosed that 50 per cent of Africa’s airline profit is
controlled by one airline-Ethiopian Airlines, explaining that Nigeria’s lack of
national carrier does not speak well of the nation and continent as a whole. His words, ‘For me, if Nigeria cannot have a good national
carrier, no African country can do it. Nigerians have everything going for
them. They have the market; they have money. It is a country of nearly 200
million people. Nigerians fly.” “You see Nigerians everywhere. It is in the best interest of
Nigeria to have a national carrier. Successive governments do not learn from
the mistakes of past governments. Ethiopians learnt from thei past mistakes
to build a world class and the most profitable airline in Africa.” The
 Chief Executive Officer of Ethiopian Airlines, Tewolde
Gebremariam explained that Africa with a huge landmass with 1.2 billion 
workforces is growing very fast, stressing that Africa ‘is the 
centrepiece of
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) from all parts of the world. He urged the continent to be prepared on how to accommodate
the expectant growth. The numbers suggest that the airlines are managing to capture
growing demand for air travel on the continent. Countries across the continent – including Ghana, Nigeria,
Uganda, and Tanzania – are hoping to tap into this growth, with plans to revive
or launch national airlines in various stages of development. He frowned at the poor air connectivity in Africa, saying,
“Africa is not well connected together.” According to him, there are thought to be up to 100 African
airlines, all competing for the same market. This is dominated by international
carriers, accounting for 80 per cent of passenger numbers. The rest is controlled by a few African airlines including
South African Airways, Egyptair, and the continent’s standout success,
Ethiopian Airlines. The latter is the only one with the scale to meaningfully
compete at this level. Gebremariam noted that without drastic improvement in how most
of the continent’s carriers are run, more cooperation between them, and
government support to liberalise and develop Africa’s fragmented aviation
market, this won’t change.