The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory
Commission (NERC) on Tuesday said it had repealed the estimated billing
methodology regulation, effective February 20th, 2020. This is
even as it directed the Distribution Companies (DisCos) to ensure that all
customers on tariff class A1 in their franchise areas were properly identified
and metered by April 30. Following the repeal, the estimated billing
methods will cease to be used as the basis for computing the
fees of unmetered electricity consumers in NESI. NERC in an order signed by its Chairman, James
Momoh, and Commissioner, Legal, Licensing and Compliance, Dafe Akpeneye,
obtained from its website on Tuesday, explained that the repeal became necessary in a bid to ensure that
there is parity in how unmetered R2 and C1 electricity
consumers are billed, in comparison to how their metered counterparts
in NESI are billed. Which is believed would make all customers happy and
satisfied. According to the regulatory body, all other customers on
higher tariff classes must be metered by DisCos not later than April 30.
Customers will not be liable to pay any estimated bill issued if the DisCos
failed to supply meters. NERC said it had placed limits on estimated bills that could
be issued by electricity distribution companies to unmetered customers. “The customer shall remain connected to supply without
further payment to the DisCos until a meter is installed on the premises under
the framework work of MAP Regulations. “Or any other financing arrangement approved by the
commission. “Energy consumed for the purpose of estimated billing is capped during the transitional period till the customers are metered. Appellants seek S’ Court recognition of Ogiamien of Benin “However, the actual amount payable shall vary in the event
of any approved tariff reviews affecting their customer class,” it stated. NERC directed further that, “based on the above, the
estimated billing methodology is hereby repealed and shall cease to have effect
as a basis for computing the consumption of unmetered customers in NESI.” The commission said, “DisCos shall ensure that all
customers on tariff class A1 in their franchise areas are properly identified
and metered by April 30. “All unmetered RS and C1 customers shall not be invoiced for
the consumption of energy beyond the cap stipulated in schedule 1 of this
order. “All R1 customers, who by definition consume not more than 50
kilowatt-hour (kWhr) of energy per month, shall continue to be billed at N4
kWh and a maximum of N200 per month unless otherwise amended by an order of
the commission,” it said. The order instructed further that the energy cap prescribed
by the commission shall only apply to R2 and C1 customers, adding that all
other customers on higher tariff classes must be metered by DisCos no later
than April 30. It stated that if the DisCos failed to comply affected
customers would no longer liable to pay any estimated bill issues by Discos. “Any customer on such higher tariff classes not metered
beyond April 30 shall remain connected to supply without further payment to the
DisCos until a meter is installed on the premises under the framework of Meter
Asset Provider (MAP) regulations or any other financing arrangement approved by
the commission,” it stated.