Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has unveiled
the addition of a new feature: ‘paycode’ to its @ease wallet. The Paycode feature has been introduced to give customers the opportunity to withdraw cash from their wallet on an ATM or from an agent at any location nationwide without using a debit or credit card. Breaking: PDP demands Supreme Court reversal of Buhari, Ganduje, Masari, El – rufai, Oyetola mandate Customers can open a Stanbic IBTC @ease wallet using the last 10 digits of
their phone number through the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD)
application – *909#. The wallet can also be opened via the Stanbic IBTC @ease
Mobile App, ATMs and agents at any location nationwide. Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc is committed to providing seamless financial
transactions to Nigerians, hence the addition of Paycode to the @ease wallet. To generate a Paycode, customers can log in to the @ease wallet through the
Mobile App or USSD – *909#; select ‘Withdraw Money’ and choose ‘ATM’ as the
withdrawal channel; enter the amount to withdraw followed by a withdrawal
4-digit PIN to authorize the transaction. The customer’s @ease wallet will
thereafter be debited with the specified amount and fees while an 8 to 12-digit
Paycode will be sent via SMS. To withdraw cash from an ATM using the Paycode, customers will press any of
the side buttons on a Paycode-enabled ATM to initiate a cardless transaction.
They will then select ‘paycode cashout’ or ‘Quickteller cashout’ and enter the
generated 8 to 12-digit paycode. The next step is to enter the withdrawal
amount for confirmation and the 4-digit PIN for authorization. The amount that can be withdrawn using the Paycode must be in multiples of
N1,000 and the maximum daily withdrawal amount is N20,000. A cash-out fee of
N105 applies (VAT inclusive). The paycode generated can be used at any partner bank ATM. A total of 12
banks’ ATM are currently paycode enabled. These include Stanbic IBTC, Sterling,
Heritage, Fidelity, FCMB, UBA, Zenith, Wema, Union, Access, Unity and Keystone.