A group of Women based in the United States of America under the aegis of Akwa Ibom Women Initiative (AIWA) has donated hospital equipment worth N2million to the Visco-Vaginal Fistula (VVF) patients at VVF hospital in Mbit Ibritam in Uyo ,  Akwa   Ibom State. The group also presented cash gifts in the sum of N350, 000   to the VVF patients. The equipment of  the maternity unit of the Cottage Hospital, Okoroete in Eastern Obolo local government area of the state according to the group was to enable the hospital provide quality services to the patients. Presenting the cash to the VVF hospital management in Uyo, a founding member of AIWA, Dr. Umo Ekanem, said that the women were delighted to be associated with the humanitarian work done at the centre. Ekanem said that the group would continue to support the centre to meet the needs of the less privileged, especially women facing life-threatening condition like VVF and recto-vaginal fistula. She commended the management of the VVF centre for the care and specialised treatment given to the women whose organs have been damaged during prolonged obstructed labour at childbirth leading to leakage of urine and faeces in their system. Responding, the matron in-charge of the Family Life Centre/VVF Hospital, Rev. Sister Sylvia Ndubuaka, thanked the women group for supporting the centre in the care for the less privileged. Ndukaba noted that the gesture was the second time the centre had received the support from the group. “We are happy, when we get help; we are faith-based organization (FBO). In 2019, the Akwa Ibom State Government pulled out its staff members that used to work here. “We treat people free of charge especially those who do not have any help, sometimes these women are abandoned because of leakage of urine and faeces,” Ndubuaka said. Ndubuaka said that the centre usually carried out surgeries and reconstructed damaged vaginal tracts and bladder in women in addition to provision of skills for them after treatment. At the Cottage Hospital, Okoroete in Eastern Obolo local government area, AIWA representative, Dr Nsekpong Udoh, said that the medical facilities donated by the group were meant for the maternity unit of the hospital. READ ALSO: NAFDAC announces gradual phase out of paraquat in Nigeria Udoh observed  that the donated equipment  were items identified as lacking during need assessment carried by AIWA some time ago in the hospital. She expressed hope that the items would be used judiciously by the hospital to give hope to expectant  and  also reduce incidents of infant and maternal death. Receiving the medical items on behalf of management, the Hospital Secretary, Mr. Edward Josiah, appreciated the women for their kind gesture. Josiah said that the hospital was delighted to receive the facilities to help equip the maternity unit and preserve life in the area.