By Chioma Joseph A man simply identified as Emmanuel, has been arrested for allegedly stabbing his friend to death over a N100 debt. The incident reportedly happened at 11 p.m. on  Wednesday, at the whitesand area of Badia, a slum in Apapa -Iganmu Council Area of Lagos. It was gathered that the deceased, whose identity was given as White London, was indebted to his killer friend, in the sum of N1,100, with a promise to pay back within a week. Supreme Court judgment on Bayelsa  shows power belongs to the people – Atiku The deceased had on Wednesday visited Emmauel, who is an attendant in  a film house/ brothel located in the area, to pay him N1,000, to balance N100. Not pleased with the part payment, Emmanuel  had insisted on collecting the N100 balance immediately, as all appeal for a latter date fell on his deaf ears. An eyewitness, who gave his name simply as Tunde, said a scuffle ensued in the process, and the angry White London dashed for a bottle, broke it and stabbed his creditor on the head. ” Socked in his pool of blood, Emma also picked a bottle and succeeded in stabbing While London on his neck. Infact, the bottle penetrated deep into the neck and we saw some white things inside. Due to the enormity of blood that rush out uncontrollably, he died at the spot. “ This death could have been avoided if they were patient. People around tried to stop them from fighting, but they obviously had each other in mind. There must be more reason why they reacted the way they did, because I can’t believe it is just for N100, ” Tunde said. It was also learnt that the suspect had attempted to bolt away, but was apprehended by some members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), who intimated the police operatves attached to Badia Division for his prompt arrest. A police source at the division disclosed that the corpse had been deposited at a public morgue, while arrangement is being made to transfer the suspect to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti in Yaba, for further investigation. Efforts to further confirm the state of investigation proved abortive as several calls put to the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Elkana Bala, was not answered. The correspondent however gathered that the Whitesand area is notorious for many violent crimes, as prostitutes, armed robbery suspects, fraudsters, drug peddlers hibernate in the said area. Findings also revealed that different units of the Lagos State Police Command had on several occasion raided the area, to clampdown on such illicit activities.