Spain’s two biggest sides clash on Sunday in the Clasico at the Santiago Bernabeu but neither leaders Barcelona nor Real Madrid are close to their best. If Barcelona win in the Spanish capital they will move five points clear at the top of the table, but beyond Lionel Messi, the Catalans are nothing to be feared. Quique Setien’s side struggled to break down Napoli in Tuesday in the Champions League, with Antoine Griezmann’s goal earning Barcelona a 1-1 draw in the last 16 first leg. It was their only shot on target. Read also: Trump angry over market decline as coronavirus response criticized Defender Gerard Pique is a doubt for the Clasico after suffering an ankle injury towards the end of the game, while Luis Suarez, Sergi Roberto, Jordi Alba and Ousmane Dembele are out injured. “We don’t have a deep squad because, unfortunately, that’s how it was planned,” said midfielder Sergio Busquets. He was joined by Ivan Rakitic, who complained: “We have a short squad but those that are in charge knew that.” Champions Barcelona sold or loaned out various players in the winter window, including Carles Alena, Abel Ruiz and Carles Perez, later bringing in Martin Braithwaite from Leganes as an emergency signing after Dembele was ruled out for six months. Barcelona coach Setien was present at the Santiago Bernabeu on Wednesday to watch Real Madrid fall to a 2-1 defeat by Manchester City. Zinedine Zidane’s side are in a poor run of form, drawing with Celta Vigo, losing at Levante and then suffering this disappointing defeat by Pep Guardiola’s side. Almost a year ago Madrid’s whole campaign collapsed when Barcelona beat them in cup and league Clasicos and Ajax knocked them out of the Champions League. There is a danger of it happening again, with Zidane urging his side to do whatever it takes to change their dynamic. “Sunday’s is an amazing match and we’ve now got to rest up well and put in a great performance,” said Zidane. “I hope that the fans come and help the team to get over this (defeat). We give our all out there, but we’re on a bad run and we’ve got to get through this however we can. Sunday’s game gives us a chance to alter this run of form.” Madrid will be missing the injured Eden Hazard and long-term absentee Marco Asensio, as well as suspended winger Rodrygo Goes. Toni Kroos could return after being dropped for the clash against Manchester City. “He’s an extremely important player for us,” explained Zidane. “It was a coaching decision and I’ve got nothing against him. I just picked another player for this game.” Elsewhere Atletico Madrid, third and 12 points behind leaders Barcelona after 25 games, visit bottom of the table Espanyol. Atletico’s record signing Joao Felix is poised to start his first game for a month after he returned from injury to score last weekend as a substitute in the club’s 3-1 win over Villarreal. The weekend’s other fixtures are Real Sociedad v Real Valladolid, Eibar v Levante, Valencia v Real Betis, Leganes v Alaves, Granada v Celta Vigo, Sevilla v Osasuna, Athletic Bilbao v Villarreal and Real Mallorca v Getafe. (dpa)