Governor Obiano of
Anambra State has lauded Air Peace for what he described as acute patriotism,
saying that it is Nigeria’s leading air carrier that  is leading
Nigeria’s re-branding on the global stage. In a statement today in Awka, the state capital, the Anambra government noted that there “is no individual or organization anywhere in the world helping as much as Air Peace to re-brand Nigeria in the comity of nations, starting with the global aviation industry”. Army say troops repelled terrorist attack on Garkida The statement signed by
the Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr C. Don Adinuba,
the state government cited the airline’s plans to commence operations into
Mumbai, India, next month as “the latest brave effort by the firm to position
the country strategically on the global scene”. “All Nigerians are
impressed by the fact that a few months after Nigeria and India signed a
bilateral air service agreement (BASA), our own airline has taken far-reaching
steps to make Nigerians benefit reasonably from the deal”, declared the state
government which noted that, though 25 foreign airlines operate into the
country, some from multiple destinations, Nigeria has been utilizing not more
than 10 per cent of its air agreements with other nations on account of limited
capacity. “Air Peace began
international operations last July 3 with direct flights into the United Arab
Emirates, charging passengers from Lagos to Sharjah and Dubai about half of the
fares by foreign airlines on the same route. The airline, which
commenced scheduled passenger flights in 2014 a year after incorporation,
scored a bull’s eye on September 14, 2018, when it signed in the residence of
the American consul-general in Lagos a deal worth billions of dollars with
Boeing Corporation to purchase 10 brand new planes from the world’s foremost
aircraft manufacturing company which is based in Seattle, Washington State. “Air Peace has proved to
be an excellent Nigerian brand in the West African sub-region where it has been
operating successfully without any serious incident for the past six years”,
Commissioner Adinuba asserted in the statement. If not for Air Peace,
according to the Anambra State government, Nigeria “would have been getting
next to nothing from its bilateral service agreements (BASAs) with 92 countries
in all regions of the world”. “Air Peace has enabled
Nigeria to become recognized lately in global aviation”, said the state
government, “unlike in the last few years when there was not one single
indigenous air carrier able to compete strongly with foreign operators. “Even the few indigenous
airlines which ventured to operate on international routes were using only one
wide-body aircraft each, which put them in a terrible position because of any time
there was a problem with the operating aircraft, it would affect their entire
international operations which, in turn, affected their passengers awfully. “In contrast, Air Peace
acquired three Boeing 777 planes before starting international operations, and
this has ensured that its international passengers are not stranded whenever
any of its machines are not available for any reason.” The statement quoted
Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State as stating that “it is truly
heartwarming that Air Peace uses the latest equipment in the aviation industry
like the best foreign airlines, its pilots and other crew members are trained,
skilled and experienced as those of foreign carriers and it services its planes
in the same place as the leading international aviation firms, yet its fares
are pocket-friendly”.