 A Gombe based NGO, Jewel Environmental Initiative (JEI) has advocated for proper sanitation and hygiene promotion activities to rid communities of rodents and contain spread of Lassa fever. Mr Ismail Bima, the Chief Executive Officer of the organization, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Gombe. READ ALSO:  Pakistan declares national emergency amid desert locust infestation Bima said the call was imperative to promote proper waste management and hygiene habits to destroy rodents breeding spots and curb spread of the disease. He noted that since there was a connection between the environment and spread of rodents which are the carriers of the virus, there was the need for the residents to pay attention to sanitation and hygiene. Bima added that awareness creation on hygiene and environmental sanitation was key to the prevention of Lassa fever in the soviety. “We have to cultivate the habit of proper waste disposal to discourage rodents which is the primary carrier of Lassa fever to our homes through community hygiene approach. “This approach is key; if you keep your environment clean and your neighbour does not, it has a way of attracting rodents to your home, therefore, community hygiene is the answer,’’ he said. Bima decried indiscriminate dumping of waste in residential quarters, adding that the trend was inimical to public health. He stressed the need for the residents to imbibe proper environmental sanitation, saying that: “ as we keep our environment clean, we must also preserve food and household items from the reach of rodents.’’ The chairman called on the people to support the state government’s waste management and sanitation programmes, and participate in the monthly environmental sanitation exercise. “ It is unfortunate that only the state government participate fully in the monthly environmental exercise, clearing drains and waste. “Environmental protection is a collective responsibility everyone must support the government effort for sustainable development,” he added. While commending the state Ministry of Health over the prompt response to curtail spread of the disease, Bima called for proper hygiene and waste disposal awareness campaigns at the grassroots. It will be recalled that the Commissioner of Health, Dr Ahmed Gana, confirmed that 7 suspected cases of the disease and two death were recorded in the state.