The federal government has designated seven of its tertiary health institutions as oncology centres of excellence with a view to upgrading them to manage invasive cancer and cancer related illnesses. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said this at a news conference to commemorate the 2020 World Cancer Day on Tuesday in Abuja. The minister said the federal government has designated the seven centres to manage cancer related illness in line with international best practices. The seven institutions are the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Benin, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Lagos, and the University College Hospital (UCH) Ibadan. Others are the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu, Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital, Sokoto, Amadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABTH), Zaria and National Hospital, Abuja. “To this end, there is an ongoing installation process of newly acquired brachytherapy machines (one per centre) and CT simulators are being supplied for these institutions to enable them commence treatment after the installations. “The bunkers to house these equipments are at various levels of completion. To ensure uninterrupted services to patients, LUTH, Lagos is on Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement with the National Sovereign Investment Authority,’’ he said. The minister said the second phase of the medical physicist residency training in South Africa is underway to enhance the skills and increase the number of personnel in radiotherapy. In addition, he said there were plans to train healthcare workers at the primary health care centres on early diagnosis and referral of common cancers. READ ALSO: FCTA flags off lassa fever, corona virus awareness campaign “Nigeria commenced residency programme, licensing and registration of clinical medical physicists for the first time. “The second phase of medical physicist residency training in South Africa is underway to enhance the skills and increase the number of personnel in that field,’’ the minister said. According to him, government is partnering the American Cancer Society (ACS) and Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) to make 16 chemotherapy medications available at 65 per cent cheaper rate than the current market cost.