The International Federation of Women Lawyers in Nigeria (FIDA), a non-governmental
organisation on Thursday urged mothers to speak out on the rising cases of
incest in the society. Chairperson of the FIDA in Rivers state, Mrs. Ngozi Odukwe-Ighosevbe, made the call in an interview in Port -Harcourt on the rising cases of incest in the society. PLWDs demand access to quality healthcare, reproductive rights Odukwe-Ighosevbe described incest as a sexual relationship between
parents and their children, siblings or relatives, explaining that no religion
supports the act, even as every culture condemns incest morally including the
laws of the land. She indentified some of the causes of incest in the family to include the
death of spouses, broken marriages and lack of self -control. Others are
lack of parental care, sexual infringement between husbands and wives, ritual
purposes among others. Odukwe-Ighosevbe pointed out that incest can cause physiological trauma
to the victims, mistrust of persons, low self esteem and fear of abandonment
among others. “The rising cases of incest have caused increase in drug abuse,
addiction to alcohol and suicidal tendency. “Parents have no excuse for having sexual relationship with their
children or children have relationships with their siblings or relatives, they
are criminally liable by the provision of law,” she said, revealing that the Rivers
state House of Assembly has passed into law the much advocated violence against
persons’ prohibition law. According to her, mothers are liable of the offence because they
keep quiet to protect the name or interest of their husbands in order not to
lose their marriage. “For instance, a mother that has three girls who are always molested by
her husband sexually because she doesn’t want to be thrown out of her
marriage is aiding and abetting the husband; such should be punished. ”We appeal to our mothers to speak out to save our children and better
our society; let us live righteous and our nation will be exalted,” she added.