Former Vice President of Nigeria, Mr Atiku Abubakar has said that the Supreme Court’s judgment that sacked  David Lyon and Sen. Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, as governor and deputy governor elect in the Nov. 16, 2019 Bayelsa governorship election is ‘opportunity to show Nigerians that power belongs to the people, and we must make good use of this opportunity.’ Recalled that the Justice Ejembi Eko had delivered the lead judgment reinstated the Nov. 12, 2019, judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja that disqualified Degi-Eremieoyo from participating in the governorship poll. The court held that the trial court was right in finding the deputy guilty of presenting false information to INEC. The Justice Mary Odili-led panel, held that no person shall be qualified to contest election if he presented false information for the purpose of election. The apex court ordered that the certificate of return be withdrawn immediately from the governor and his deputy and be issued to the candidate with the second highest votes in the Nov. 16, 2019 election. Atiku on his Facebook page said: ‘I received the verdict of the Supreme Court, declaring the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Bayelsa state gubernatorial elections, Senator Douye Diri, as the duly elected Governor of the state, with gladness. Bayelsa: INEC will effect Supreme Court judgment once served – Okoye Senator Douye Diri had cause to visit me before the elections and received my blessings and counsel. I am fully satisfied that he has what it takes to make Bayelsa the ‘glory of all lands’. His intellect, personality and character, are a credit to Bayelsa and the PDP. I congratulate Senator Douye Diri and his running mate, Mr. Lawrence Ewhrujakpor. I also felicitate with the Peoples Democratic Party. The Lords Justices have given us another opportunity to show Nigerians that power belongs to the people, and we must make good use of this opportunity. I call on all the people of Bayelsa to make peace with the recent past and embrace the future together, united in the mission to transform the state into a haven of peace and prosperity. Finally, I urge the Supreme Court to show consistency in its judgments and find the resolve to always deliver just-judgments no matter whose ox is gored. The people of Nigeria are behind the apex court in whatever they do to free themselves from the dominance of dictatorial forces.