The National treasurer, Miners
Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Bello Inuwa Galoji has disclosed that Nigerian
miners need to mechanize for the mining sector to advance in doing its
businesses. Galoji stated this yesterday while answering questions from journalists at a workshop organised for miners by the federal ministry of mines and steel development in Bauchi, lamenting that lack of funds is threatening mining activities in the country. Coronavirus: WHO launches $675m preparedness plan “Mining has to be mechanized.
If you are going into mechanized mining, you need bulldozer, you need
excavators, you need dredgers, you need compressors, whereby you have to blast,
you have to open the ground and what have you. If you are going to do that
artisanally by hand, actually is not possible”, Alhaji Galoji maintained. Galoji, who is also the Bauchi
state chairman, Miners Association said that one of the problems of mining in
Nigeria is that the sector has not been mechanized as 80 per cent of mining
activities in the country are done with bare hands with the highest number of
miners been artisinal due to lack of funds. Galoji
 who disclosed that the capital base for a small scale miner is over 250
 million dollars, noted that
the capital has always been the challenge because one must own at least 
not less than four to five excavator, two to three bulldozer, amongst 
others to
start a mechanize mining. The national treasurer who called
for the proper harnessing of the mining sector for the country to depend less on
oil an gas added that for the mining industry to flourish, Nigeria must invest
heavily into mechanization and not by use of digger and shovel. “By the time we are fully
mechanized, human hands can only be used for directing, regulating and what
have you. So, for us to advance, a lot needs to be done, we have to have adequate
funding for miners to use in their businesses, it is only when we do that in
Nigeria that we can advance in terms of mining”, the association’s
treasurer pointed out. Galoji while boasting that Nigeria
has capable and best hands in the mining sector added that “we have the
knowledge, we have the experience, we have well-trained miners, professionals
in the academics that are in the system but what we are lacking is
funding”. Alhaji Galoji informed that the
extension workshop for the artisans and small scale miners in Bauchi is a
capacity building workshop where all selected ASA miners were invited to
represent their communities or local government areas. He
 said that two zones of
northeast and northwest that made up of thirteen states were taking part
 in the four-day workshop with the essence of bringing miners together 
to give them new
technology and trained them on the best way to go about doing the 
mining. He said that the participants
would also be trained on mining safety, how to use your mining equipment in a
safer way because mining with a bare hands is a great danger to health of the
miners. Earlier speaking, the
representative of the Director, federal ministry of mines and steel development
in Bauchi, Mr Anene Nnamdi said that the program was organised not only as an
incentive for the artisanal miners to formalize their activities but is also
aimed at improving the knowledge-based and skills in carrying out their duties.