The Group Managing Director of Bhojsons
Group Plc, Mr Vishant Dalama has said that their business in Nigeria is
progressing despite economic challenges. Dalamai, made this disclosed this recently in Lagos during a launch of Amaze power products of the company said that the success the company has recorded can never be possible without the support of their dealers. He also expressed profound gratitude and appreciation for their immense support and contributions, which has seen the company grow over the years despite the difficult operating environment and challenges of the Nigerian economy as a whole. DSS seeks Plateau assembly partnership to tackle crime He described the dealers’ as partners
and strong pillars to the continued growth of the company. “We are really
excited to see and celebrate you, our esteemed business partners for your
support in growing our business to where it is today. Without you all, it won’t
have been possible to get to where we are,” he added. According to him, the Amaze brand offers
customers the best quality power solutions using cutting edge technology in a
complete package that guarantees maximum performance. “Amaze Power products are designed for
young achievers who demand more in their lives. Amaze delivers more
performance, more reliability, more attractive designs with consistent power,
and the assurance of the quality of global manufacturing standards and 24×7
after-sales service across Nigeria. The brand also has one of the most
interesting aesthetic designs from France with smoothly sophisticated
architecture and refined edges,” he said. Also speaking at the event, the Business
Unit Head Bhojsons Powerhub, Mr Rajneesh Gupta stated that Amaze offers a technologically
advanced Power Back-Up solution that meets the yearnings and Power Back up
needs of Nigerians. Mr Gupta noted that Amaze power products
are manufactured with an edge to deliver higher reliability. He mentioned that Amaze Inverters and
batteries are manufactured using cutting edge technology which ensures deliver
more back up for the same capacity.

He continued that Amaze is 24×7
protected with Nigeria’s trusted after-sales service provider “Bhojsons Care”
to provide round the clock customer support to deliver customer delight
always.