President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration has
significantly weakened the Boko Haram insurgents. Buhari who condemned the recent attack of the insurgents on Garkida in Adamava state, disclosed this in a statement signed by Garba Shehu, his spokesperson, after insurgents attacked the town, killing many people on Friday. Reacting to the attack, the president extended his sympathy
to the families of the victims and assured them that no part of the country
would be abandoned to their fate. He stated, “these attacks on soft targets by the terrorists are obvious signs of frustration because my administration has significantly weakened Boko Haram’s military capability to invade and hold Nigerian territory unchallenged,” “Our gallant forces deserve our appreciation for repelling the attackers but they must go beyond this point. They have our full support to go after the terrorists and have them pay a huge price. I want to assure the country that terrorists will continue to face the combined power of our military until they give up their mistaken ways, he added”. He further said that, “these occasional and episodic attacks on poor civilians by the terrorists are mere propaganda efforts to portray them as strong in order to fool the public into believing that they haven’t been militarily weakened by our gallant troops.” The president also assured them that in the coming weeks, Nigerians would “witness an aggressive campaign to rout Boko Haram once and for all”. Buhari, further appealed to citizens to keep supporting the troops in their effort to secure the country. “Security will continue to be well funded despite the competing needs of social services. I appeal to Nigerians to continue to support our troops in their gallant efforts to protect the citizens and secure the country,” He said. According to reports, the insurgents broke into the town around 7pm, shooting intermittently which made Soldiers who engaged them in a gun battle to retreat. As a result of that, the insurgents reportedly moved into
the town, setting many houses on fire.