A political/media group, the Buhari Media Organisation
(BMO), has said that the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) is too consumed by its
hatred for President Muhammadu Buhari to see anything good in his
administration. The BMO said this is even so in spite of the
administration’s major strides in tackling insecurity and poverty, particularly
in Northern Nigeria. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and
Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, BMO said the NEF, as reflected in its claims that
the North is worse off in the last five years, is just keen on continuing its
pre-election campaign against a President that remained the man of the masses
across the country. “There has never been a time when this group of
Northern elite supported President Buhari, and this is because they knew he
would never pander to the interest of people who had for decades contributed to
the impoverishment of the North. “It is on record that many of the challenges the North
is battling today have a lot to do with the manner the oligarchs implemented a
deliberate socio-economic policy to keep the people in perpetual poverty. “None of these self-styled Northern elders has a
notable public record of poverty alleviation initiative targeted at even the
millions of out-of-school children that are a ready tool in the hands of the
political elite. “The result has been the trend of banditry and other
violent crimes which have been said to be a fallout of several years of neglect
of the people. “Here we have a man that is rising to the occasion, yet
individuals including Professor Ango Abdullahi and Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, a former
Chief of Staff to former Senate President Bukola Saraki are whipping up hateful
public sentiments against the President who introduced the largest social
investment scheme in Sub Saharan Africans to take millions of people, even in
the North, out of poverty. “Is it not disturbing that a group which claimed to be
representing the interest of a region is pretending not to know that insurgents
once set up a Caliphate and hoisted their flag in North-East Nigeria but can
barely hold any territory today? “There was also a time that President Buhari was
accused of focusing too much attention on the North because of the attention he
was giving to the rehabilitation of areas ravaged by the Book Haram insurgency,
yet an elitist group believes that he has not done much for that part of the
country. “In case they have forgotten, there is a North-East
Development Commission that has the mandate to carry out what is technically a
Marshal Plan in the ravaged region.” BMO argued that the NEF position that the President lacked a
commitment to check insecurity in the country is not tenable judging by
on-ground realities. “If Ango Abdullahi and co mean well for Nigeria, and
the people they claim to be representing, they would have realised that the
administration has been taking steps to check new security challenges. “Are they so cut off from reality that none of them is
aware of the President’s community policing initiative which is targeted at
ensuring that communities are involved in making their domains safer and more
secure? “And since the elders’ forum appears well-read, they
must surely know that this government has since 2015 procured 22 aircraft and
is expecting 17 others including 2 Super Tucano jets to give added air power to
the Nigerian armed forces. “We make bold to say that only people out to play
politics or are outright members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will
make such blanket comments about security and poverty in Northern Nigeria. “President Buhari has never denied that the country has
a security challenge, but he has always harped on a united front against terror
groups. This we urge the forum to do rather than the vainglorious attempt to
play politics.” BMO urged Nigerians, especially those in the North, to
continue to cooperate with the Buhari administration to check insecurity in the
land.