The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in collaboration with the Raw Material Research & Development Council (RMRDC) is set to hold a three day international Exhibition tagged 5th Nigerian Manufacturing & Equipment Expo (NME) and Nigerian Raw Materials Expo (NIRAM). Speaking at a press
conference on Wednesday,  in Lagos,  the National President of MAN,
Engr. Mansur Ahmed, said, “this year’s NME/NIRAM Expo is unique in many
ways as one of its striking new features are the direct collaboration between
MAN and RMRDC to sustain the running of the EXPO after the exit of Clarion
Events West Africa as event organizers. Owing to the significant impact the
Expo has had on the industrial sector and the economy at large, both
organizations deemed it necessary to build on the success so far and present an
improved Expo this year which would be highly beneficial to all
participants.” “The Expo now
widely considered as the leading and most comprehensive event which encompasses
every aspect of the manufacturing value chain has this year been designed to
address pertinent concerns for the eventual takeoff of the African Continental
Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) come July this year.” The Expo which is
scheduled for March 10 – 12, 2020, at Landmark Event Centre, Oniru, Victoria
Island Lagos, theme, “The Fourth Industrial Revolution and the Nigerian
Manufacturing sector”. According to MAN
president,  “the theme is instructive at a time like this as it is
pertinent for stakeholders to critically discuss how to tap into the
opportunities the Fourth Industrial Revolution presents at the same time
remaining competitive in a fast-developing industrial space. He further explained
that the Expo which was initiated as a response to the government’s commitment
to industrialisation and Nigeria’s need to diversify the economy has so far
been fulfilling the core of its mandate as attested by participants who
constantly make the international manufacturing and equipment gathering a
priority event. “It is important to remind Large, Medium and Small manufacturing organizations to take advantage of this year’s edition to explore new production processes that will increase production output, reduce costs, improve product quality and diversify into new products.” Reps pass bill to repeal Police Act for second reading “In line with our
previous practice, the NME will run side by side with a conference on
Manufacturing Partnership for African Development (mPAD), a strategic gathering
for thought leaders in the manufacturing sector, policy makers and government
regulatory agencies to discuss solutions for existing challenges and carve out
ideas for the growth and development of the manufacturing sector. “On the sideline,
Raw Material Research & Development Council (RMRDC) will host masterclasses
on latest research findings delivered by carefully selected resource persons.
Another significant session is the Women in Manufacturing session which affords
Amazons the opportunity to share their experience with intending women
manufacturers who are prospecting to venture into the sector but have
reservations on their expectation. Chairing this session is a renowned
manufacturer, Chief Executive Officer, Sokoa Chair Centre Limited, Mrs Ibukun
Awosika who will be sharing alongside carefully selected women manufacturers
that have confirmed attendance as discussants at the event.” Also commenting,
Director General/CEO, Raw Materials Research and Development Council(RMRDC),
Prof. Hussaini Ibrahim said, “in co-locating these events, both RMRDC and
MAN have demonstrated rare confidence and camaraderie among themselves for the
purpose of hastening national industrial development.  On this note, let me
inform you that NIRAM Expo was conceived in 2012 to create a unique platform
where manufacturers could seamlessly source for the much needed raw materials
and benefit from research and development breakthroughs, which is very rare
given the nation’s fragile industrial architecture.” “NIRAM Expo has
therefore brought about sustainable balance of resource-based Micro, Small and
Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) having access to current research and development
findings from the nation’s reservoir of knowledge,” he said.