In a bid to curb unemployment rate
and improve youth productivity across the country, the Industrial Training Fund
has empowered over 200,000 Nigerian youths through the National Industrial
Skills Development Programme (NISDP) Director General of the Fund, Joseph Ari stated this during the set of 2019 NISDP graduation ceremony and presentation of start-up kits in Abuja NDLEA arrests 126 drug dealers in Kebbi in 2019 “The NISDP is one of the
numerous skills acquisition intervention programmes introduced and implemented
by the Fund to facilitate the achievement of the Federal Government policy on
job and wealth creation. It focuses on skills acquisition to create jobs to
stem rampant unemployment and breed a new generation of entrepreneurs, in order
to transform the economic landscape of the country. Since its inception, the NISDP has
equipped over 200,000 Nigerians nationwide and 18,000 from the FCT with skills
for employability and entrepreneurship. “This phase of the programme, which the closing ceremony is taking place today, commenced in the last quarter of 2019.
The training lasted between 3 and 6 months, depending on the trade. In all,
over 11,000 Nigerians were equipped with skills in 9 trades namely, Leather
Works (Shoe and Bag Making), Welding and Fabrication, Catering and Event
Management, Tiling, Production and Laying of Interlock Tiles, Furniture Making,
Domestic Electrical Wiring and Installation, Solar Energy Installation,
Plumbing and Pipefitting, and Autogelle and Beauty Care. “In
 the FCT, 300 youths were
trained in Welding and Fabrication, Domestic Electrical Wiring and
Installation, Catering and Event Management, Solar Energy Installation 
and
Autogelle and Beauty Care. We believe that given the intensity and the 
very
practical nature of the training, which was 80 per cent practical and 20
 per cent theory, they were equipped with the necessary skills and 
attitudes for them to
thrive as employees or as entrepreneurs. When tied with the trades, 
which were
chosen after careful and in-depth need analysis of their locales, we 
have no
doubt they will thrive, as trades they have learned will always be 
needed,” Ari
explained. He added that the ITF has embarked
on different skill acquisition to ensure that Nigeria’s rising population
doesn’t become a challenge to the country, while calling for collaborations
from both the private and public sector to achieve their goals. “Our
 population that ordinarily
should be a resource, may become an albatross if we cannot provide a 
greater the proportion of our population with a source of livelihood. “It must, however, be noted that
President Buhari’s administration has made a tremendous effort to create jobs.
Today, across the length and breadth of the country we see visible evidence of
the Federal Government’s efforts to get Nigerians engaged in meaningful
economic ventures through various social investment programmes and the numerous
skills acquisition programmes being implemented by the ITF and other
organisations with similar mandates,” Also in his address, the Secretary
to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha reiterated government’s
commitment to tackle youth unemployment through different skill acquisition
programmes Mustapha who was represented by the
permanent secretary, economic and political affairs, David Badejo added that to
effectively tackle poverty and unemployment, the country needs people to be
equipped with requisite skills for increased productivity. Also speaking, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment,
Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo says the ministry has played a key role in
diversification of the economy and ensuring service delivery is enhanced
through youth empowerment. He added that diversification remains the best way to grow
any economy, while commending the ITF for empowering Nigeria with the cotton edge
technology. The minister who was represented by Nasir Sani Gwarzo further
urged the graduating trainees not to sell their start-up packs, but rather use
it for both individual and national development.