The Borno state
government on Sunday reopened the Maiduguri-Dikwa Road, five years after it was
closed as a result of the Boko Haram insurgency. The 86 kilometresroad was closed to motorists in 2015 at the peak of Boko Haram activities in the northern part of the state. FCTA demolishes encroachments on road corridors Governor Babagana Zulum, accompanied by the Theatre Commander, ‘Operation
Lafiya Dole’, Maj. Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi and the General Officer Commanding 7
Division ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’, Brig. Gen. Abdul Khalifa, reopened the road. In his remarks, Gov. Zulum commended the Nigerian military for its
successes in degrading Boko Haram insurgents that have been terrorising people
in the state. He said that the reopening of the road would resuscitate socio-economic
activities, especially fishing businesses, crippled in the Lake Chad region. The governor explained that motorists travelling on the road would move
freely to their destination without military escort following improved
security. Gov. Zulum stated
that the government is also consulting with the military to ensure that travellers
on the Ngala and Kala Balge Roads move without being escorted. He warned members
of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and other unions
against escorting commuters on the highway. “Everybody in Borno
state is aware of what is going on the highways. It is not something new and
our presence here is not to vindicate anybody. ”The Nigerian law
does not prohibit the transportation of goods within the state. So therefore,
you cannot ask a driver to pay money for transporting sachet water anywhere
within the state. ”How can you
transport pure water and tomatoes and you are ask to pay N19, 000 fora six-tyre
vehicle. This government and the people will fight to see an end these
activities in Borno,“ he said. He said that the
government would regulate activities of lorries and trucks in the state. While donating six
patrol vehicles to the Nigerian military in Mafa, Gov. Zulum said the gesture is
in an effort to compliment the federal government’s effort to curtail
insurgency. Speaking earlier,
Adeniyi warned that any driver who gives money at any check -point would be
arrested and prosecuted, just as he warned officials of the NURTW against
imposing unnecessary charges and levies on commuters thereby exposing them to
untold hardship. “It is generally
known that it is very difficult for business to thrive if there is no peace and
security. It is also a known fact that Boko Haram is using some of the fishing
businesses to fund their campaign of terror,” he said.