Chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State
have expressed worry over the continuous disruption of peace and security in
the state by the suspended National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams
Oshiomhole. The stakeholders, who spoke to journalists at the weekend in
Benin City, warned that if not called to order, the continuous violence being
propagated by the embattled National Chairman and his co-dissidents in the
proscribed Edo Peoples Movement (EPM, could degenerate. The party leaders insisted that the erstwhile governor, who has
been suspended by his ward in Etsako West Local Government Area, has no legal
authority to function in office as National Chairman of the APC, urging the
state government to stop him from causing further breakdown of law and order in
Edo State. An APC leader in Edo South, Prince Austin Eweka, said the
suspended national chairman has turned himself into a lawless figure in his
selfish bid to muscle Governor Obaseki out of office, and must thus be put in
check. “Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has continued to show the world the
kind of person he really is, violating orders and promoting violence across Edo
state. He has disregarded the ban on political rallies. The Commissioner of
Police and the Inspector General of Police, have standing directives against
holding rallies in the state but Oshiomhole has flouted them.” A chieftain of the APC in Edo Central, Theo Okoh, said rather
than unite party members in his home state, Oshiomhole has through his actions
caused divisions, creating a faction within the party. “The actions of Oshiomhole have continued to cause palpable fear
among residents and party members in the state. Imagine a National Chairman who
instead of uniting members is promoting violence, division and disaffection
among party members.” Okoh, however called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the National
Executive Committee of the APC and the Inspector General of Police to kindly
call the suspended National Chairman to order so as to restore peace and sanity
in Edo. Also, Sen. Domingo Obende, who represented Edo North at the National Assembly, decried that despite efforts by the Obaseki-led state government to bring economic development to the people of Edo, Oshiomhole who is his predecessor, has been a negative influence in the affairs of the state. Buhari, let the Service Chiefs go He insisted, “The APC in Edo State is intact and united. The
party and the good people of Edo State are fully in support of Governor
Obaseki, who in the last three years has improved the lives of Edo. Oshiomhole,
rather than promote crisis and unrest in the state, should support the stellar
performance of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration.”