…apologise
to customers Mega carrier, British Airways has explained why some of its
passengers were left stranded in Accra, Ghana following the diversion of
flights occasioned by Harmattan haze that disrupted air travel. For four days, many foreign had to divert flights to Lagos over inclement weather coupled with insufficient landing aids at the airport. Customs boss, auditor-general differ over N28bn remittances International airlines like BA, Emirates, Delta, Ethiopian
Airways and others lost estimated N3b to the natural phenomenon that grounded
their operations into Lagos.General Manager, West Africa, Mr Kola Olayinka in a statement
yesterday, said the situation was as a result of recent delays and diversions
of flights occasioned by the inclement weather that caused very poor visibility
at the Lagos Airport, coupled with a number of factors outside of their
immediate control. In these unique cases, he further stated that the decision to
delay or divert flights were made carefully by their pilots who are well
trained to handle situations like this, especially in consideration of the
safety and security of passengers and crew. Explaining what the carrier did to secure accommodation for
all the passengers, the airline chief noted that most hotels were taken up by
passengers of airlines that were earlier diverted to Abuja. His words, “The direct result was the inadequacy of
accommodation. To resolve this, we booked all 157 available rooms and
accommodated 157 Passengers, we also ensured the safety of the remaining
passengers by accommodating them in a dedicated area provided by Sheraton where
we provided meals and drinks” He however tender the airline’s unreserved apology to its
esteemed customers for the inconveniences of varying degrees, experienced these
past few days. “As a people-first airline, we ensured that our customers were
properly accommodated in hotels where adequate rooms were available, meals,
refreshments, and transport to and from the Airports were provided for their
movement at the different Airports in Accra, Abuja, and Lagos”. Olayinka stated that the Accra incident was markedly
unpredictable as the delay lingered for two days due to the persisting weather
condition. “We chartered a Boeing 767 from Euro Atlantic to convey
passengers from Accra to Lagos however a number of passengers had opted to make
personal arrangements for their return”. He called on passengers to send receipts of expenses incurred
during this period to their customer relations team on standby to process the
reimbursements and also attend to queries. “We remain unwaveringly committed to the safety and comfort of
every passenger and crew member. That is, and will always be the priority for
everyone at British Airways” .