The Federal Government has initiated a
Safety Net-Job for Unskilled Persons as a Strategy to move a significant
percentage of untrained, untrainable and idle youths out of unemployment. The Director Special Duties and Project of the Federal Ministry Labour and Employment, Dr. Martina Nwordu, revealed this over the weekend at a National Survey for Generation of Baseline Data on Unskilled Persons in Nigeria at Bauchi. FCTA prohibits early morning vehicle inspection, bars truck from metropolis According to her the Ministry decided to
embark on the survey in response to the address by President Muhammadu Buhari
at the presentation of 2020 Budget where he promised to lift 100 million
Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. She however said that the ability of the
country to deliver on this promise depends largely on the cooperation of
relevant sectors especially the social sectors of which the Federal Ministry of
Labour and Employment is part. She classified unskilled persons as young
persons in the age bracket of 12 to 30 years with educational qualification in
the verge of nil to Senior Secondary School Certificate. While the younger age bracket of 12 to 15
years are usually found in religious, charity and humanitarian institutions
established for the poor, she added that those above this age limit are
commonly seen at street corners, market places, motor parks and other dark and
dangerous areas of the society from where they unleashed various forms of
mayhem at the slightest provocation. She further reiterated that information on
exact numbers of this critical population of the Country, disaggregated by
their location, accessibility and poverty status are not well documented. She
said this has make planning and implementation of intervention strategies for
them most “knee-jerk or reactive in nature with little or no sustainability
consideration”. It is in the light of the above she said
and as part of efforts toward filling this data gap and building a solid
statistical frame work for action that the Ministry embarked on a nationwide
data generation exercise which is expected to yield an initial descriptive data
base on the targeted population. She identified the formal and informal
institution targeted for the survey as Homes for the Poor established by NGOs,
FBOs and International Organisation, Live-in Educational Institutions
established for the homeless youths by religious bodies and Faith Based
Organisations, Market Touts Unions, Street Urchins and Area Boys Groups and
IDPs camps. Some of the areas visited by Dr. Nworgu
and Labour Officers in Bauchi were Cornerstone Centre for Educational
Development and Children (FBO), Wunti GSM Market Touts Union, Unguwan
Mai-Anguwa Street Corner Area Boys, Tsangayar Shiek Dahiru Bauchi Phase Two-
Almajiri Educational Institution among others.