Ahead of  March 28th,
2020 local government elections in Benue State, the Benue State Independent
Electoral Commission (BSIEC), has completed the screening of candidates for the
position of chairmen, deputy chairmen and councillorship candidates of various
political parties. While chairmen and deputies were screened at the BSIEC
headquarters in Makurdi, Councillorship candidates were done at BSIEC offices
across the 23 local government headquarters. The screening committee led by the Commission’s Chairman,
Dr. Loko Tersoo Joseph has all Commissioners of the Commission, representatives
of the Police Commissioner, Immigration, DSS, Civil Defense and others. The exercise which started earlier in the week commenced
with the screening of chairmanship candidates and was rounded up with deputy
chairmanship candidates. At the venue for the screening, candidates of political
parties were thoroughly vetted to ascertain the genuineness or otherwise of the
particulars and other information submitted by the sponsoring political
parties. The state chairman of the commission, Dr. Tersoo Loko who
expressed satisfaction with the turn up and orderliness exhibited by candidates
during the exercise, reinstated the readiness of the commission to conduct a
free, fair and credible election next month. He commended the media for the accurate reportage of the
commission’s activities and thanked all stakeholders for showing interest in
what would affect  them, charging
politicians to be guided by the rules of the game as the commission was ready
to compromise on the laid down procedures to favour a particular party. However, the Benue State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC),during it stakeholders meeting held in Makurdi, announced its decision to boycott the council  polls in the state citing what it referred to as ‘winner take all’ posture of the ruling PDP. NAF set to dislodge bandits in Niger -CAS Arising from the meeting, the Acting State Publicity
Secretary of the APC, James Ornguga, who briefed the press said APC lost hope
in the state electoral body to be neutral and directed its members to keep away
from the exercise so as not to fall prey from their antics. According to him, “we cannot afford to subject our
members from parting with their hard earned money for campaign after which the
state electoral body loyal to PDP would announce the already prepared list of winners,”
he alleged. Other political parties that have successfully undergone
screening exercise are those of the AAC, APGA, PDP among others including
chairman, their running mates and councillorship candidates.