Ikeja – A group, Yoruba Advancement Foundation, has called on Osun government to probe alleged assault on Agbowu of Ogbaagba, Oba Dhikrulahi Akinropo, by Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, during a peace meeting in the state. The group made the call in a statement jointly signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Prince Adedapo Adesanmi and Secretary, Mr Adeniyi Ogunsola in Lagos on Thursday. We are conscious of the havoc poverty is wreaking on the family – Buhari The Yoruba Advancement Foundation also asked the Osun State Council of Obas to constitute a special committee that would investigate the “disrespectful behavior” of the Iwo monarch. Oluwo was alleged to have punched Oba Akinropo and battered him till he sustained a facial cut during a peace meeting convened by the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 11 last Friday. The Yoruba group said the probe was necessary because such incidence was capable of ruining the highly referred royal institution of the Yoruba race if condoned without any form of repercussion. “We strongly believe that the inglorious open demonstration of lack of temperament of Oluwo of Iwo needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency by all concerned. “The group want the state government, law enforcement agency, distinguished Yoruba royal fathers, Iwo kingmakers and Yoruba sons and daughters worldwide to address the issue,” it said. The statement said that the Omoluabi philosophy was understood to be the benchmark for good and moral behaviour among Yorubas wherever they could be found all over the world. According to it, that a Yoruba king now decided to openly descend on another Yoruba king, and engage such person in a boxing contest due to an argument over land issue is a new low in the history of the Yoruba royal institution. “As a major voice that is championing the advancement of the highly esteemed Yoruba heritage across the world, we are using this avenue to condemn this uncouth attitude. The group recalled that it was a similar character deficiency and failure of leadership that caused the fall from grace to grass of the former Deji of Akure. “Adepoju Adesida was deposed and banished from the throne by the state government in 2010 for alleged assault of one of his estranged wives,” the group noted. The group said it was its sincere prayer that peace and prosperity would continuously reign all over Yoruabaland and among the Yorubas worldwide. The state government, however, condemned the incident, describing it as unfortunate and avoidable. The government in a statement by Mrs Funke Egbemode, the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, said a situation where monarchs engaged in public display of temperament did not edify the revered stools of “our forebears.”(NAN)