President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, has reiterated
his full support to the Federal Government’s border closure policy. Debunking  insinuations that the policy was responsible for the drop in Dangote  Cement’s profitability for the year 2019, he said that was erroneous  thinking as the border closure policy was the best for the country’s economy at this point in time. Malaysian parliament to elect new PM March 2 amid turmoil He revealed that Dangote Cement
is building its terminals across Africa and the border closure cannot in any way impact negatively on the company’s performance. Meanwhile, the stock of Dangote
cement has remained dominant on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE)
as investors swooped on the stock after the news of a robust dividend as
announced by the management of the company. It would be recalled that the
Management approved that N16 per share be paid to the shareholders despite the
drop in profitability. The company’s investment across
Africa is also bearing the desired results as Pan-African sales volume grew in
the year 2019, hitting 9.6Mt from 9.4Mt. Dangote Cement Plant, Mtwara,
Tanzania recorded an increase of 94 percent increase in volume within the
review period. Dangote Cement Plant, Pout, Senegal put up a remarkable
performance with sales up more than 100 per cent of rated capacity. The board has proposed a final
dividend of N16 per share subject to ratification by the shareholders at the
coming annual general meeting (AGM). Speaking on the result, Group
Chief Executive Officer, Dangote Cement, Joe Makoju, said: “Dangote Cement
maintained strong financial performance despite a low growth environment,
pricing pressure and increasing competition in key markets.  The Nigerian
operations maintained volume and revenue performance in a challenging
environment. Export sales were affected by the border closure in the second
half of 2019. Looking ahead, I expect an increase in volumes in 2020 as we commence
clinker exports via shipping from Nigeria. “Pan-Africa volumes were slightly
up notably supported by Tanzania and Senegal. I am glad to report that Tanzania
contributed positively at EBITDA level. In 2020, I believe Dangote Cement will
see an increase in profitability in Pan-Africa driven by higher volumes and further
efficiency improvements,” he said.