By Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has expressed dismay over
government’s plan to borrow N2 trillion from the pension funds presently put at
10 trillion to finance the development of national infrastructure in the
country. Addressing the journalists  Monday in Abuja during the National Administrative Council, NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, reminded the Federal Government that the pension reform act 2014 provides only for investment not borrow. While noting that the contributory pension scheme is being fully funded by workers and employers and privately managed by Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), Wabba reiterated that the guidelines on investing pension funds has the primary objective of adequate return on investment and the safety of the fund. Islamic leader frowns at nagging insecurity in Northern region “We strongly advise Federal Government to shelve its plan and
not to do anything that will undermine the integrity of the pension scheme. We
will continue to watch over the safety of the funds to protect the interest of
workers and pensioners. Recall that recently, the National Economic Council gave the
nod to the Federal Government to borrow 2 trillion from the pension funds
presently put at 10 trillion to finance the development of national
infrastructure. “Government need to be reminded, that the contributory
pension scheme which come into being in 2004 is fully funded by workers and
employers and it’s privately managed by Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs). The
funds are in the individual Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of beneficiaries. “The main objective of the scheme is to ensure that after
retirement every worker in public or private sector who had contributed to the
scheme receives his/her retirement benefits as at when due. “It is important to stress that the 10 trillion-naira pension
fund is not warehoused in pension commission which is the regulator, the
Central Bank of Nigeria, the Pension Fund Administrator or the pension fund
custodian. The fund is warehoused in the private individual Retirement Savings
Accounts of contributors, who are workers and beneficiaries. “The guidelines on investing pension funds which had the
input of organized labour, pension union has the primary objective of adequate
return on investment and the safety of the fund. The pension fund
administrators are investing for maximum return on investment for the benefit
of the beneficiary and not borrowing. “The pension reform act 2014 provide for investment not
borrow. The Pension Fund Administrators are to invest based on their risk and
reward appetite; but usually in minimal risk entities. They are not to be
coerced or cajoled to invest because it is criminal to do so.” Said Wabba While noting that Labour being a critical stakeholder as
provided in the act were not consulted, the NLC President strongly warned that it
was a clear violation of the provision of the Pension Act, that 5 years down
the line, the board of PENCOM statutorily saddled with taking or approving
decisions as weighty as this has not been constituted. Furthermore, he expressed concerned that at a time government
should be considering paying up its indebtedness to pensions that is in in excess
of N400 billion, it was rather nursing plans. “Our concern is further deepened by the fact that at the
moment, government’s indebtedness to pensions in accrued rights, pension
differentials, minimum pension guaranty, pension increase, etc., are in excess
of N400 billion. Government has to be inclined to pay up this debt. “The claim that direct borrowing is consistent with practices
in Chile is patently false. In Chile government accesses pensions funds through
the money market and all such investments are guaranteed by Government to cover
for the principal and return on investment.” Wabba said