A stalwart of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Edo state, Peter Esele, has said that recent happenings within the party indicate that it is time for the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, to go. Esele, who said this in an interview in Benin on Sunday, enthused that “in life, there comes a time when you must make a clear distinction between individual and institutional interests.” He argued that Oshiomhole’s utterances about national issues have become a huge embarrassment to the party and the country at large, asserting that as the ruling party, the APC must do all it can to defend state institutions no matter the pain or interest. “Failure to do so is a recipe for anarchy,” he claimed, adding that Oshiomhole cannot claim ignorance of the fact that the deputy governorship candidate of the party in Bayelsa state was ineligible to contest the election, which led to the Supreme Court’s verdict. He further alleged that the incompetence and corrupt practices at the national secretariat of APC have resulted in the weakening of various important internal processes for the selection of party candidates. Esele said that the losses suffered from the flagrant abuse of the party’s internal workings have led to various court judgements against the party. “States like Bayelsa and Zamfara now have to contend with governors the people never voted for,” he said, just as the APC has also been factionalised in Edo state with the alleged support of the national chairman. “Neither faction will be able to fulfil the required provision of our party’s processes and protocol. APC has outgrown the kind of theatrics displayed by Oshiomole, who ironically, was also a product of court processes. READ ALSO: Electricity unions to suspend services over army brutality “The time is now to thank him for his services to the party and move on. Or are we going to wail again, when the courts intervene to sack our candidate in Edo? “There comes a time when you must choose sides. This is one of such critical moments and I dare say that Oshiomhole has tried and it is time for him to go,” Esele, who was APC governorship aspirant in 2016, said.