The 12th edition of the National Police Games (NPG) will hold in six venues, Tony Oli, Chairman of Anambra State Sports Development Commission (ASDC), said on Wednesday in Awka. Oli told newsmen that venues for the games were: Alex Ekwueme Square in Awka, Otuocha Stadium, Rojenny Stadium in Oba and NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp at Umuawulu/Mbaukwu. Yobo on what he’ll bring take from Rohr He said because of non-availability of facilities golf and shooting events would hold at Port Harcourt in Rivers and Oji River in Enugu respectively. The commission chairman said that some indoor games would take place at Tansi International School Okpuno, GoldenTulip Hotel, Amawbia and Regent Hotel, Awka. “A new swimming pool is being constructed at Ekwueme Square, while handball, volleyball, basketball, beach soccer and combat games will be hosted at Rojenny and other venues. “Track and field events will equally hold at Rojenny Stadium,’’ he said. Oli also said there would be 50-kilometre cycling and 21km marathon events during the games expected to last for 10 days from Feb. 29. Also speaking, Usman Alkali, Chairman of the Games’ Main Organising Committee, said the competition would feature between 200 and 300 police athletes from each of the country’s 12 zonal commands. Alkali, who is a police Assistant Inspector-General (AIG), said his committee was satisfied with the level of preparedness for the games so far. He called on athletic Anambra youths to take part in the competition as those who did well might have the opportunity of being recruited as policemen. Solo Chukwulobelu, the Secretary to Anambra State Government, said the state was proud to be  the first to host the games in the South East zone. Chukwulobelu assured participants and organisers of a serene environment and good reception from the people and government of the state during the games period. Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), said he and officers in his Department would ensure that journalists who would cover the games worked within a conducive atmosphere. (NAN)