The mother of Remo Stars Football Club’s slain assistant captain, Tiamiyu Kazeem, has revealed that the Special Anti-Robbery Squad operatives had tried to arrest her son on Saturday two weeks before his death. The bereaved mum disclosed this on Tuesday morning when the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun paid her a condolence visit. READ ALSO: Father of slain Remo stars footballer grabs SARS officer over the death of his son (video) According to her, the late Tiamiyu, who was born on August 7, 1994, was a professional footballer rather than an internet fraudster (aka’ Yahoo boy’) as claimed by the SARS officials. Read her full statement below: “Two weeks before his death, my son complained that operatives of SARS usually surround his car. In fact, he called his father on many of these occasions. “There was a certain day that his elder brother’s wife put to bed and he was at the hospital. Just as he went in, I was called that SARS operatives had surrounded his car. I rose and went there and on getting there, I met them. “I called one of their bosses immediately because, during Gbenga Daniel’s tenure, I served all policemen in the state souvenirs whenever they had meetings. So, he told them to leave my son alone and they did. They told me they were sorry and I told them they should be sorry for themselves. “He usually wore his club’s jersey. He cherished the jersey more than any other cloth. I washed his jerseys almost every day, and his boots too. He had up to 15 pairs of boots. Whenever he wears a white jersey, he would match it with a white pair of socks. His jersey and socks always match. He was in one of his jerseys that Saturday when the incident happened. “He woke up on that Saturday morning and said he wanted to get to his manager’s place. After he left, I called him a few minutes past 11 am to tell that him his food was ready. “The person with him said he stepped down from his vehicle to buy something and before he came back, there were SARS operatives seated in his car. “They took his phone and interrogated him. He told them he was a footballer. And he was whisked to Abeokuta in their vehicle during which the incident happened.”