The Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) now has a new Acting Director-General – Dr (Mrs) Yemisi Asagbra. Until her
appointment, Asagbra was the Director, Production, Analytical and
Laboratory Management department. She was also the Deputy
Director at the Food and Quality Management Division of FIIRO. Asagbra holds a
doctorate in Food and Industrial Microbiology. Her appointment came on the back
of the directive of the governing board to the former acting
Director-General, Chima Igwe, after  the investigation of the Independent
Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) revealed that
Igwe did not defend thesis let alone bag a doctorate from the Universite D’
Abomey Calavi, the Republic  of Benin as claimed by Igwe. Igwe
 had been promoted
at least three times based on a non-existent PhD certificate contrary to
FIIRO law that only PhD holders can be senior officers. Meanwhile, a 
statement signed by ICPC’s spokesperson, Mrs Rasheedat Okoduwa, on the 
outcome of the Commission’s investigation confirmed that Igwe had yet  
to
defended his doctoral thesis 18 years after he purportedly finished his 
course
work. The statement read:
“In the past few weeks, the alleged certificate scandal involving the
Acting Director-General of the Federal Institute for Industrial Research
(FIIRO), Oshodi, Mr Chima Igwe, has been entangled in a lot of
controversy.  To clear the air and fulfil its pledge to make public its
findings on the matter, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related
Offences Commission (ICPC) hereby places on public record the outcome of its
further investigations. “The Commission
re-opened investigations into the status of Mr Igwe’s pursuit of a PhD degree
on the 3rd of  December, 2019 upon the  discovery of certain gaps,
occasioned by ambiguity in the letters from University D’Abomey Calavi, The
Republic of Benin, language differences and translation of documents, in the
earlier investigation. “In the course of
its further investigation, the ambiguity and confusing language translation the
issue again reared its head when the institution, in its letter to the Nigerian
Mission in Benin dated 22nd January 2020, which stated as translated that ‘…Mr.
Chima Carthney Igwe has completed his three-year doctoral programme”, yet the
same correspondence further stated that Mr Igwe had not publicly defended his
doctoral thesis and the institution was giving him a chance, at his request, to
re-register and update his research results in the current 2019-2020 academic
year. It stands to reason therefore that if the PhD programme was concluded
there would have been no need to request re-registration by Mr Igwe. “Although it was confirmed that Mr Igwe did the required three years for the programme from 1999 to 2002 and wrote a thesis, the Commission is firm of the opinion that he cannot be said to have been awarded a Doctor of Philosophy degree since he is yet to complete the process of defence of his thesis in the 18 years after he is said to have finished the course work.  By global standards, the successful defence of a thesis is a compulsory condition for the award of a PhD. READ ALSO: NLC writes Attorney General, Malami over Agba Janligo’s prolonged incarceration “Therefore,
in line with its avowed commitment to discharging its duties with professionalism
and responsibility the Commission has since communicated its most recent
findings and position to the relevant authorities for necessary action.” Confirming the
appointment of Asagbra in an exclusive telephone interview with The Daily 
Times, the Chairman of the Governing Board of FIIRO, Alhaji  Dan ‘Azumi
Gwarzo said Mr Chima Igwe had been directed to hand over to the second most
senior director, Dr Yemisi Asagbra. He said it was
unfortunate that Igwe was promoted without the requisite PhD to the position of
a director but vowed that the board would conduct an investigation to unveil
how it happened.