The Chief Executive
Officer, Belujane Konzult, Mr Chris Aligbe, has described the maltreatment suffered
by Nigerian travellers in the hands of foreign airlines during the flight
diversions about a week ago as unfair. He lamented that
the foreign carriers treated its Nigerian passengers badly during the period. Recalled that due to the inclement weather conditions for the most part of two weeks ago, some of the foreign airlines couldn’t land in Lagos and diverted their flights to the neighbouring African country, Ghana. ”I vow  to prosecutes violators of State ranching law” -Gov. Ortom In the process,
British Airways, for instance, told some of its passengers to find their ways to
Nigeria and promised to reimburse them later. Some of the
passengers had cried foul and had to return to Lagos from Ghana road transport,
while the airline claimed it made available to the passengers a Boeing 767
aircraft to airlift them to Lagos. He
 said: “It is
unfortunate with what happened with the Instrument Landing System (ILS) 
because
I think the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) removed the 
Category Two
(CAT 2), but they didn’t finish installing the CAT 3 before what 
happened. If CAT Two had not been removed, it won’t be as severe as it 
was. So, it’s a
question of timing element and it happened when they were in this 
process. “But, what the
airlines did, which I think was very unfair, they took it out on the Nigerian
passengers what they felt they suffered. They now took it out on the Nigerian
passengers. I hope Nigerians will know that when we get Nigerian carriers on
the routes, they should switch and remember what happened to them during this
period.” Besides, Aligbe
further charged the Federal Government to grant the airline sub-sector in
Nigeria infant status. He explained
that with such declaration would help the airlines to stabilise and compete
with their counterparts outside the country. He said that
during this period, some taxes and charges would either be reduced or
eliminated for the airlines for a period of five to 10 years. “The Nigerian airline sub-sector still remains
infants. The airlines should be declared infants and many things go with this.
It has to do with taxes that you will cut off, supports in charges for a period
of five to10 years, the infant industry status is created and you give them all
the privileges and if after 10 years, you cannot grow up, you stop being an
infant. “If you want to
then die, you can die. But, for the 10 years, the infant status should be there
to help them stabilise and grow,” he said.