…Say food supplied was contaminated and would not go round to all in the camp …We pleaded with them to accept it, but they refused – NEMA Aggrieved Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Fufore International Transit Camp in Adamawa State have rejected the foodstuffs supplied to them by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). The IDPs on Wednesday staged a protest over the shortage of food in the camp, alleging that the NEMA had not supplied food to them for four months. Fufore International Transit Camp that houses more than 1, 500 IDPs, is located near Fufore Town, headquarters of Fufore Local Government Area of Adamawa State. Spokesperson for the IDPs, Malam Umar Bakura, said on Friday in Yola, that they rejected the foodstuffs because it was contaminated and would not go round to all the IDPs. “We are about 1, 500 Internally Displaced Persons including children, women, orphans and elderly people living in the Fufore camp. There are over 200 households in the camp and NEMA used to supply a total of 660 bags of 25 kg and 330 bags of soybean of 25 kg among the households for the period of one month. “But, today (Friday) NEMA came with 220 contaminated rice of 25 kg and 300 bags of soybean of 25 kg each to share, which is one third of what they were giving us previously and we rejected it, ” Bakura said. He said that they hailed from Bama, Gwoza and Gamboru in Borno State and called on Governor Babagana Zulum to evacuate them back home. READ ALSO: Inculcate moral values in children, Okowa charges stakeholders Meanwhile, NEMA’s operational officer in -charge of Adamawa and Taraba states, Midala Anuhu, confirmed that the agency has evacuated the food items back to its store. “The agency reviewed the distribution of the food items, where it sent about 226 bags of rice of 25 kg and about 300 bags of soybean of 25 kg to the IDPs. They (IDPs) rejected the food items. We pleaded with them to accept it, but they refused and protested that what we supplied to them is not enough for them. “So, we evacuated the food items back to our store because we have no choice,” Midala said.