The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr. Richard Adebayo, has said the Industrial Training Fund (ITF), with its mandate to train Nigerian youths on various skills acquisition, will eliminate the growing trends of unemployment in the country. Adebayo who was the first civilian governor of Ekiti State, also said his office will always support the ITF in its quest to train more Nigerians on vocational studies. READ ALSO:  ITF appeal to State govt, NGOs to train more Nigerians on skills acquisition Speaking on Friday in Jos, at the Commissioning ceremony of the ITF modern library complex, central store and classroom block at the Funds headquarters, the Minister maintained that, “In the absence of white collar jobs, the Fund would ensure that their mandates are fully actualised. “I want to assure that the federal government will continue to put in place policies that will ensure that organisations like the ITF whose activities have direct impact on the life of Nigerians thrives to its fullest”, he said. Earlier, the ITF Director General Joseph Ari, said the modern library being commissioned will accommodate learning facilities for Engineering, Arts and Humanities Social Sciences, among others. “It would also house a 250 computer based test CBT capacity, as well as office accommodation for staff. It is our firm believe that the library will enhance the capacity of staff to perform their duties. “It must be noted that for any organisation to flourish, it requires the services of a vibrant and well furnished line, taking into cognisance our position as a learning and development agency. “The staff of the Funds are expected to be knowledgeable and that can only be achieved through constant research which is possible with a rich modern library. “In order to ensure continuous efficient and effective mandate delivery, there are several other projects in the pipeline which include the construction of a skills center in Enugu and an industrial skills training center in Gombe, construction and refurblishment of area complex in Awka, Jos, Enugu, Kaduna amongst others”, Ari said. On his part, the Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, said the Fund has contributed in no small measure towards the upliftment of the living conditions of its immediate community and the educational sector in the State, through its Corporate Social Responsibility Programmes. Lalong commended the ITF for the giant strides it has recorded under the leadership of the DG, who has transformed and refocused the organisation to respond to the needs of Nigerians for entrepreneurship and productivity as several  efforts have led to the empowerment of thousands of Nigerian youths with cutting-edge skills for entrepreneurship and employability in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s policy on poverty eradication and wealth creation.