Coronavirus has killed over 1,000 people and infected more than 42,000 in China after it first emerged in Wuhan, Hubei province, late last year: READ ALSO:  Gov Okowa Inaugurates Delta Sports Commission Board * The World Athletics Indoor Championships, which had been scheduled for Nanjing from March 13 to March 15, were postponed until next year. World Athletics is working with organisers to settle on a date to host the biennial event in 2021. * The Asian Athletics Association cancelled its Wednesday to Thursday indoor championships in Hangzhou. * Asian Champions League matches involving Chinese clubs Guangzhou Evergrande, Shanghai Shenhua and Shanghai SIPG have been postponed. Guangzhou and the Shanghai clubs will join the competition in April, with their group matches due to be played in May. Shanghai Shenhua and Shanghai SIPG were due to play away at Perth Glory and Sydney FC but Australian officials sought to reschedule the matches. This was after their government imposed a travel ban on foreign nationals arriving from China. * A four-team women’s Olympic qualifying tournament involving China, Australia, Taiwan and Thailand was moved from Wuhan and rearranged to be held in Australia by the AFC. * Vietnam’s government said it would not allow the country to host sports events in February. This means home AFC Cup group stage matches for Ho Chi Minh City and Than Quang Ninh will have to be switched to away fixtures. Ho Chi Minh City will now face Yangon United in Myanmar on Tuesday while Than Quang Ninh meet Ceres Negros on Feb. 25 in the Philippines. * The Chinese Football Association said domestic games at all levels would be postponed. * The all-electric Formula E motor racing series abandoned plans for a race in Sanya on March 21. The move puts Formula One in the spotlight, with Shanghai due to host the Chinese Grand Prix on April 19. * The International Tennis Federation moved the Fed Cup Asia/Oceania Group I event featuring China, Taiwan, Indonesia, South Korea and Uzbekistan out of Dongguan to Nur-Sultan (formerly Astana) in Kazakhstan. But the Feb. 4 to Feb. 8 event was later postponed after Kazakhstan declined to serve as substitute hosts. BADMINTON * The Feb. 25 to March 1 China Masters tournament in Hainan was postponed after several players withdrew. The BWF said it hoped the flagship Badminton Asia Championships could still go ahead in Wuhan from April 21 to April 26. * China and Hong Kong were forced to withdraw from the Badminton Asia Team Championships in Manila which holds from Tuesday to Sunday, organisers said. * The International Olympic Committee announced Jordan as hosts of the boxing qualifiers for Asia and Oceania after an event in Wuhan was cancelled. It will now take place in Amman from March 3 to March 11. * The International Basketball Federation moved the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers held in Foshan from last Thursday to Sunday to Belgrade. * The FIBA Asia Cup 2021 qualifying match between China and Malaysia, to be held in Foshan on Feb. 24, will be rescheduled. * The elite women’s LPGA golf tour cancelled the March 5 to March 8 Blue Bay tournament to be held on Hainan. The tour also cancelled the Honda LPGA Thailand event in Pattaya scheduled for Feb. 20 to Feb. 23 and the Feb. 27 to March 1 HSBC Women’s World Championship in Singapore. * The PGA Tour Series-China moved its Feb. 25 to Feb. 28 global qualifying tournament to Lagoi, Indonesia, from Haikou. * Hockey Pro League matches between China and Australia, scheduled for March 14 and March 15 in Changzhou, will not be played.