Deputy Inspector  General of Police, Operation, Mr Abdulmajid Ali,  during a visit to injured policemen at St Gerad Hospital Kaduna, on  Friday  The Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of  Operation, DIG Abdulmajid Ali, says the police will sustain the  nationwide special operation to wipe out bandits and other criminals in  the country. Ali stated this on Friday when he visited policemen  injured during an operation in which 250 bandits were killed in Kurudu  forest, Birnin Gwari area of Kaduna State. The affected policemen are receiving medical attention at St. Gerad Hospital and 461 Nigerian Air Force Hospital Kaduna. “I was sent by the Inspector General of Police,  Mohammed  Adamu to see the condition of the gallant policemen who were  injured during the operation that was carried out three days ago. “And I am very happy that what I saw was very satisfying  as the injured men are very stable. The Doctor treating them said there  is no need to worry as they are responding to treatment.” According to him, the IGP is  very disturbed about the  condition of the policemen and assured them of getting the best  treatment. “I assure the injured men that we will give them the  best of treatment as we will still go into their issue to see how fast  they can respond to treatment. READ ALSO: NAPTIP probes human traffickers arrested at Seme border “Unfortunately, we lost another officer which increased  the number of deaths to two with the death of  Sgt. Idris Aminu,  previously we lost Insp. Muhammad Abubakar during the operation. “It is a continuous operation as this is not the first one. “It is just that this is a very special one, because the  police has woken up and are equal to the task of fighting every bandit  in the country until they are cleared.” He disclosed that of the remaining injured policemen,  four will be discharged soon while the remaining will continue to be  under medical observation. Our Correspondent reports that the DIG also  visited other injured personnel being treated at 461 Nigerian Air Force  Hospital Kaduna.