The African Export-Import Bank
(Afreximbank), in collaboration with FCI, will hold a two-day conference in
Nairobi to promote the use of factoring to enhance access to financing for
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in East Africa. The Regional Conference on Factoring and Receivables Finance is scheduled to take place on 27 and 28 February and is expected to attract about 120 senior executives from factoring companies, banks and non-bank financial institutions, government agencies, consulting firms and IT providers. Raise your child properly, Adekunle Gold tells parents They will be joined by
regulators, lawyers and insurers for the sharing of best practices in
regulatory and legal regimes, innovation and credit insurance services that can
facilitate the growth of factoring in support of SMEs. According to information from
Afreximbank and FCI, factoring can provide more financing to SMEs than
traditional lending channels if the knowledge and capability are developed and
shared. The Conference is aimed at
creating awareness, building capacity and providing opportunities for
networking in the factoring industry. It will feature presentations, panel
discussions and success stories and will allow attendees to discuss the current
state and challenges of the factoring industry. Discussions will also cover
products and market development. In a note obtained by The Daily Times from Amadou Labba Sall of
Afreximbank, Managing Director,
Intra-African Trade Initiative, Afreximbank, Kanayo Awani stated, “Promoting Intra-African Trade and
facilitating Industrialization and Export Development are key pillars of
Afreximbank’s current strategy. We believe that factoring will support their
implementation capacity in the context of the untapped opportunities. Factoring
provides a solution to address the challenge of access to financing for African
SMEs. Afreximbank will continue to play a leading role in facilitating the
growth of factoring in Africa especially in creating awareness and building
requisite capacity.” “It
is generally recognised that Africa presents some of the most exciting global
opportunities for economic development and expansion. Factoring is capable of
providing support for future success in both funding SMEs and inter-African
trade. FCI’s
African Chapter is in place to help guide this expansion and develop
the necessary skills in
market to drive growth at the regional level”, Peter Mulroy,
FCI Secretary General.