The Edo state Police Command has arrested five persons for allegedly posing as men of the Nigerian Army in the state. The names of the suspects were given as Ehiorobo Evans (28), Osariemen Agho (25), Solomon Hussaini (28), Idoro Solomon and Ezeyi Kelechi. Police Public Relations Officer in a statement, Chidi Nwabuzor, on Monday in Benin, said that the suspects assembled in an area and were clad in army camouflage uniforms. He said that men of the police acting on a tip-off stormed the scene and nabbed the suspects. “The operatives of the anti-cultism unit acting on a tip-off along PZ Road, off Sapele Road, Benin city, that five young men namely, Idoro Solomon, Ehiorobo Evans, Osariemen Agho, Solomon Hussaini and Ezeyi Kelechi were seen gathering in the area dressed in army camouflage uniforms, mobilised to the scene and arrested five of the suspects who confessed being fake army officers. “They also confessed to have been terrorising the area. Items recovered from them are army camouflage uniforms and jack knives,” part of the statement read. However, one of the accused persons, Evans Ehiorobo said he served four months in the Nigerian Army, but has been on AWOL for eight months. “I am a soldier from 2 Division, Ordinance Unit of the Nigerian Army. Yesterday, I came to visit my friend. I knew him from Zaria. And there is one of my course mate upstairs playing game and I joined him before the police came to arrest us. “I was on mufti, it was my phone that they found my picture that I am a soldier too and that is how I was arrested. I am still serving as a soldier, but I have been on AWOL for eight months now and I didn’t return. READ ALSO: Enugu State Govt confirms 4th case of Lassa fever, starts step-down awareness in communities “They have not been paying me for a while. I served four months in the army. I have been arrested twice; the first one was for robbery,” Ehiorobo revealed. The police spokesman further disclosed that the police foiled a robbery incident that occurred in the early hours of Tuesday along the Benin-Lagos Expressway. He added that one of the armed robbers was killed, one arrested with gun injuries while another escaped with bullet wounds.