First Bank of
Nigeria Limited has clicked the Oil and Gas Banker of the Year 2019 award at the
Patrons’ Dinner and Industry Awards of the Nigeria International Petroleum
Summit. The four-day
event, comprising conference and award dinner, is acclaimed to be Nigeria’s
Government official platform for the petroleum industry gathering which
recently held at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja. The summit has,
however, been adjudged by many to have evolved in becoming Africa’s premier
business and technology conference for not just oil and gas but for other
industries in the economy, notably; maritime, automobile, banking and finance,
power (electricity), pipelines, LNG, infrastructure, engineering and
construction amongst others. Commenting on
the award, the Bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Dr Adesola Adeduntan said, “we
take pride in this recognition, as it represents the nation’s identification
with our leading role in promoting the growth of the oil and gas industry. We
remain steadfast on being the financial partner of the first choice to Nigerians
and, indeed across Africa as we collectively strive towards the continued
growth of the economy at large” The event had in
attendance; Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, CEO, First Bank of Nigeria Limited,
represented by Mrs Bashirat Odunewu, the Bank’s Group Executive, Energy &
Infrastructure as a panellist to deliberate the topic, “What are the key
challenges when it comes to managing risk and generates sustainable long-term
in-country value development environment”. Other speakers in the panel were Mrs Olayemi Anyanechi, Managing Director, Partners Sefton Fross; Bank Anthony Okoroafor, Chairman, Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN); Mr Bitrus Bako Nabasu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources; and Patrick Olinma, Executive Director, Oil & Gas Commercial, Total E&P Nigeria Ltd. Lawan to lead delegation to Sen. Longjan’s burial Over 5000
individuals and Corporate bodies from across 43 countries including; Marc
Thystère Tchicaya, Minister of Hydrocarbons, Republic of the Congo; Dr Omar
Farouk Ibrahim, OPEC Governor for Nigeria; Jens FrolichHolte, State Secretary,
(International Development) Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Norway; Carri
Lockhart, SVP Portfolio and Partner Operated Development and Production
International Equinor. Also, Gabriel
Mbaga Obiong Lima, Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons Republic of Equatorial
Guinea and Magda Chambriand, Former CEO, National Agency of Petroleum Natural
Gas and Biofuels Government of Brazil amongst others participated in the
event. FirstBank has
over the years supported public and private players in the oil and gas industry
which has been the mainstay of the Nigerian economy, post-independence. With
its “Oil and Gas Contract Finance products”, the Bank finances the Oil &
Gas value-chain by providing Advisory/Agency services, Acquisition
Finance/Reserve based lending to indigenous oil producing companies, trade
Finance for crude oil export and refined product import and contract finance
for oil service companies ranging from simple hospitality to complex turnkey
Engineering, Procurement and Construction, amongst other tailor-made treasury
and cash management solutions.