The Bayelsa governorship election voided by the Nigerian
Supreme Court on Thursday last week has provoked a conversation on the
metastasis of the cancer of identity theft in Nigeria and the country’s place
in this malaise in the world. The most instructive of the several historical
narratives of identity theft was one that happened in the 1540s. It was the
story of one Martin Guerre, a 16th-century French Basque peasant, who lived in
the village of Artigat in the French Pyrenees. Born in a village called Hendaye in 1525, Guerre inherited his father’s wealth but faced several challenges, in spite of his prosperity. One challenge he faced was his sexual impotency and the fact that he could not consummate his relatively young marriage, a problem that was solved by a sorceress who was said to have helped him cast out this demon. Shortly after, his wife gave birth to a boy named Sanxi. Guerre’s most dominant challenge however was that he hated Artigat village. Suddenly, he decided to elope. To Spain, he fled, worked as a lackey in the palace of a Cardinal and got enlisted as a soldier. One day, on St. Lawrence’s day in 1557, he got shot in the leg, causing it to be amputated. While this was ongoing, his disappearance had caused a lot of uproar in Artigat. Efforts were made to locate his whereabouts which became futile. Then the village and his wife, Bertrande took his disappearance as a fait accompli. Okomu Oil mourns 6 staff killed in road crash One day however, in the summer of 1556, some eight years
after, a man who had similar features with the long-lost Guerre, presented
himself to Bertrande. She was excited and threw her arms open to him. Later
revelations about him revealed that his real name was Arnaud du Tilh from the
village of Sajas, in Gascony. He was a renowned actor who possessed a
photographic brain. He had taken his time to learn every bit about the real
Guerre. Though Bertrande saw in him shared replica features of her husband,
there were some connects, mannerisms and manifestations that were off-keyed,
especially Arnaud du Tilh’s thirst for Guerre’s material assets. When a
soldier, passing through Artigat, who claimed he had seen Guerre’s leg
amputated on St. Lawrence’s day in 1557, told Artigat villagers that the
impostor couldn’t have been the Guerre, the stage was set for a seismic revelation
of the impostor’s true identity. Persuaded of his real person, Arnaud du Tilh was dragged to
court, which proceeded to the Toulouse Parliament. On the verge of an acquittal
since Bertrande claimed he was indeed her husband due to the semblance of
features, the real Martin Guerre showed up. Arnaud du Tilh was convicted and
hanged by the state. The Guerre story is one of the most long-lasting identity
theft stories in world history. It spoke of how a person could live a lie as an
identity for years undetected. On Thursday last week, though dissimilar due to
the foggish motive behind it, the Nigerian Supreme Court established that Mr.
Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo, erstwhile Deputy Governorship candidate of Bayelsa
State, was a miniature of Arnaud du Tilh, establishing a case of his enmeshment
in serial identity theft issues that lasted for decades. The court voided both
his and the governor-elect, David Lyon’s joint governorship candidature. In the course of the trial, the Supreme Court found out that
the name in Degi-Eremieoyo’s First School Leaving Certificate issued in 1976
was Degi, Biobragha; his WAEC/GCE, 1984 certificate bore the name Adegi
Brokumo; his first degree bears Degi Biobarakuma Wangawa; the affidavit of
Correction and Confirmation of Name he swore to on August 9, 2018 bore
Biobarakuma Degi; another Affidavit of Regularization of Name sworn to on
September 18, 2018 bore Biobarakuma Wanagha Degi Erkmienyo; another one sworn
to same day claimed that the alphabet “A” was inadvertently added to his
surname, to read Biobarakuma Wanagba Adegi, but his 1984 WAEC/GCE certificate
bore Adegi Biobakuma and not Biobakuma Wanagha Adegi, among other
irregularities. It may be argued on the superficial that these
irregularities in Degi-Eremieoyo’s name might have resulted from an imprecise
mind and not strictly a fraudulent intention. However, the most obvious
insinuation that could arise from these irregular ding-dong claims is, intent
to defraud and subvert. In a country as ours that is brimming and riven by
identity theft issues at the political and even social levels of the society,
it may be too superfluous of anyone to excuse Degi-Eremieoyo’s imprecisions.
The truth is, since the 1914 amalgamation of the Southern and Northern
protectorates, stealing of identities, laying claim to false identities and
flaunting of spruced-up identities, have become posters of our social
interactions. Political barons have been major culprits of these concocted
identities, resulting in charlatans occupying political positions that they
were not qualified for. Since 1999, a horde of fakers of identities and
personalities have gone in and out of Government Houses, political positions at
all levels of government and appointments bearing fake identities, with dire
consequences for us and our country in the estimation of the world. On the financial plane for example, identity theft and
financially related crimes are on the upswing. With viral use of Information
and Communication Technology, many imposters are hoisting identities that are
not theirs to swindle unsuspecting victims. Being a contact-based economy,
sustained by who you know, the need to steal identities has become rife. With
its brimming over-150 million internet users, a figure that is on the increase
almost on a daily basis, a high percentage of who are subjected to internet
related subversion of their identities so as to gain financial advantages off
them, Nigeria’s cyberspace is a lush and lucrative ground for cybercriminals.
On the same level is the rampant mode of online identity theft, as well as a
regime of social media impersonation. Big shots have had their identities
cloned by fakers to gain advantages. Only last year in the United States,
federal officials indicted 80 Nigerians for fraud and money laundering
offences, amounts totaled $46m or £38m. The US attorney’s office for the
Central District of California had filed a 145-page, 252-count indictment which
named 80 suspects of involvement in this crime, with at least 77 of them
identified as Nigerians. This and many others, as well as official abetment of
these crimes, due to the endemic virus of corruption, have resulted in
Transparency International herding Nigeria in the group of the most notoriously
corrupt countries of the world. Perhaps the most verdant and fertile ground for identity
theft in Nigeria is the political landscape. Uncharted, uncensored and
literally a no-man’s island, the political plane is apparently susceptible to
this vice because Nigeria celebrates and glorifies achievements and is a
country where certificates are glorified ahead of competence and capability. It
also undoubtedly flourishes because there is no centralized data capturing
system. Beginning with the famous and notorious cases of Salisu
Buhari, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Evan(s) Enwerem at the outset of the Fourth
Republic in 1999, identity theft crisis has since then been on the rise. While
Buhari, erstwhile Speaker of the House of Representatives’ claim to the lower
chamber was fraught with serial forgeries, he was ultimately removed as a
result of the residual activist inclinations in Nigerians, accumulated since
the days of the military. While he claimed to have attained the age of 36 years
in 1999, the young man, representing Kano constituency, was actually born in
1970. His further claim to have graduated from the Canadian University of
Toronto, with a degree in Business Administration, was catapulted by the
university. Also, in a petition in 1999 by one Dr. Waliu Balogun, erstwhile
Lagos State governor, Tinubu’s claim to have attended the Chicago State
University, going by his INEC Form 001 at the time of contesting the Lagos
State governorship poll, was shot down. His claim of having attended Government
College, Ibadan, was also alleged to be false, as well as his age claim. While
Tinubu claimed to have been born in 1952, Balogun submitted that this was gross
discrepancy as he had earlier, in documents at the said Chicago University,
claimed that he was born in 1954. Though Buhari was shown the gate, Tinubu
weathered the storm of his litany of identity crises. Several other political barons have followed suit, ranging
from Dino Melaye, Ayo Fayose, Adams Oshiomhole, Gabriel Suswan and Presidents
Goodluck Jonathan, Muhammadu Buhari, among other top political players. While President
Olusegun Obasanjo had opened Jonathan’s Pandora’s box by his seemingly
innocuous comment to wit, “Even Jonathan did not finish his PhD course but when
it was presented, we stated that it does not matter but many people did not
know because it was a PDP thing,” Buhari’s own became an object of intense
judicial battle until a few months to the 2019 elections. The Daura-born
president had been accused of not possessing a School Certificate, even at the
point of enlistment into the Nigerian Army. Today, identity theft has become endemic in Nigeria. There
is hardly any workplace that does not have one or two harvests of this vice. We
have come to such a moral low that the vice has become pandemic, society just
not bothered a hoot about it any longer. In those days, an accusation of
someone being an impostor attracted a raging viper’s venom-like spit. Dr.
Okechekwu Ikejiani, an ally of Nnamdi Azikiwe and a former Chairman of the
Ibadan University College, had been impugned by the Tribune in a culled letter-to-the-editor
opinion piece earlier published in the Daily Service of October 13, 1951. In the letter, the writer, one Aina Adetokun, writing from
Ekotedo, Ibadan, had castigated Ikejiani thus: “In fairness to Dr. Nnamdi
Azikiwe, bearing one or two occasions in which he collected public money
without rendering any accounts, he has been trying to make an honest living. He
is on the whole earning his keep. One of the things that vitiate Dr. Azikiwe’s
leadership is the type of noisy and dishonest colleagues who proclaim him ‘god
of Africa’. And who are these disciples? One Dr. Okechukwu Ikejiani, former
Chairman of the Ibadan University College, returned to Nigeria about three
years ago with a lot of fanfare. He claimed to have obtained a doctorate degree
in medicine. It was later proved that the degree was a fake. Consequently the
quack expert was kicked out of the University.” Ikejiani had sued the medium
and the Supreme Court of Nigeria, the Ibadan Judicial Division, under Mr.
Justice Miles Abbott, giving judgment on September 12, 1952, held that Dr.
Ikejiani had been disparaged by the article and awarded him “the sum of 750
pounds in damages and 10 pounds for costs, plus 30 pounds for disbursements.” Nigeria’s social and political spaces are riddled with
identity fakers. Today, there are governors, advisers, president, ministers and
all what-ought-nots who are embroiled in thievery. Rather than ostracize them,
we egg them on by calling them “Excellencies” and other adulations. If an
electoral candidate claims to possess a certificate before nomination and while
filling same nomination form, decides to stick to his School Leaving
Certificate, shouldn’t this be a red flag to the party nominating him? In a
state in the South West, a governor ostensibly doesn’t possess the certificates
he earlier claimed to possess, regales himself with the prefix of “Prince Dr.
Governor” and society moves on as if nothing is amiss. The Supreme Court judgment which voided Degi-Eremieoyo and
David Lyon’s joint governorship candidature is a step in the right direction as
it may signal to subverters and supplanters that no matter how long it takes,
identity thieves will not escape the hammer of justice. The only drawback in
the judgment is that it seems to bring back, through the backdoor, Supreme
Court’s own resolve not to apply the principle of the Rotimi Amaechi v
Celestine Omehia decision which itself had been voided by Section 141 of the
Electoral Act. There seems to be huge injustice in an election which gave
Lyon/Degi-Eremieoyo 352,552 votes, as against Douye Diri’s 143,172, now having
Diri sitting pretty on that governorship stool.