In  a bid to empower African women with requisite
skills and platform to prosper their business, the Economic Community of West
African States have launched the 50 million African Women speak project, which
is aimed at providing a platform and requisite knowledge for women
entrepreneurs. The project, which cuts across the 15 member states of the ECOWAS was launched in Abuja, and it is expected to be funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB). Unilag ex-lecturer bags 21 -year -jail term for rape ECOWAS
representative, Raheemat Momodu who represented the commissioner for social
affairs and gender relations said the project is targeted at attracting 50
million women entrepreneurs across member states, but will strive to surpass the
number in order to ensure that African women are empowered maximally. “A study by AfDB
revealed that women entrepreneurs face gender parity in accessing financial
services and as well as cultural barriers in their various businesses. It is
because of these constraints that make it difficult for women to access funds
that will enhance their business prosperity across the continent. “In another
report that the world bank, 70 per cent owned by women do not access financial
services from financial institutions, resulting to a deficit of $285 billion
across the continent.  In sub-saharan
Africa the deficit is estimated to be at $20 billion and it is at the level of
younger women. “This is why
member states have decided to host and implement the 50 million African women
speak project which is funded by the African development bank and Nigeria is
seen as a strategic in achieving this. “The objective
of the project is to facilitate business through the creation of virtual
platform for networking and information sharing order to improve productivity
and economic prosperity. As such, ECOWAS has empowered the 15 member state in
setting up committee to facilitate the implementation,” she explained. Momodu said it
is expected that women across ECOWAS member states to use the platform to grow
their business and also network. On how women at
the grassroot will be reached, she said the women affairs ministry will in
collaboration with the media carry out sensitization and mobilize women to come
out and register for productivity.