The
 Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria (EXMAN) has advocated for
 a partnership between relevant agencies of the Federal Government with 
professional players in Nigeria’s marketing communications industry 
towards building a positive and lasting image identity for the country. President  of the Association, Tade Adekunle who made the advocacy in Lagos,  recently, said there was the need for marketing communications industry  professionals to come together, work as a team and partner with the  government in building the country’s image, stressing that the  practitioners were forever ready to partner with the government. Fidelity Bank appoints Isa Inuwa as Independent Non-Executive Director He
 explained that it is important for the government to engage 
practitioners in the marketing communications industry as partners, 
pointing out that the task to positively build the image of the country 
could not and should not be left in the hands of quacks. According
 to him, a sensitive task like building an image identity for the 
country must be left in the hands of thoroughbred professionals who will
 take a holistic view of the situation and strategically proffer 
solutions. “There
 is also the need to work as a team to partner with government. It’s 
important for government to engage practitioners in marketing 
communications industry as partners. The task to positively build the 
image of this country cannot and should not be left in the hands of 
quacks but practitioners who will take a holistic view of the situation 
and strategically proffer solutions. The practitioners are forever ready
 to partner with government,” he said. And
 similarly, in his critical assessment of business performances by 
operating firms in the experiential marketing sector, especially during 
the period of the outgone business year 2019, Adekunle observed that 
firms in the sector fared significantly well judging from their positive
 contributions to consumer experiences through the brands and various 
clients they worked for. He
 also projected that the marketing agencies have even greater chances 
for better business opportunities in the course of the unfolding year 
2020 despite expected challenges. According
 to him, there are many expected areas of common challenges confronting 
players in the industry such as among other things, issues relating to 
multiple taxation and clients invoice payment terms which presently is 
posing growth challenge to Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs). He
 added that what was required to address the challenges would be an 
ideal towards working together, collaboration, exchange of ideas and 
even sharing of facilities between business players across the sector. “There
 are many areas of common challenges. The ideal is to work together to 
achieve a common purpose in the areas of addressing issues of multiple 
taxation, clients invoice payment terms (that is becoming a challenge to
 SMEs) and above all in the areas of collaboration, exchanging of ideas 
and even sharing facilities. “Well,
 from the various analyses of 2020 by experts, the year 2020 will come 
with its own challenges. However, there are also opportunities for those
 who can position themselves to think out of the box. Innovation will be
 key for all. Despite the challenges, there are opportunities out 
there,” he said.