Determined to stop illegal trade along the coastal areas, the Nigerian Navy, Forward Operating Base, Ibaka in Mbo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom state has arrested eight suspects with 608 bags of 50kg rice allegedly smuggled into the country from the Republic of Cameroon. Parading the suspects on Wednesday, Commanding Officer of the naval base in Mbo Local Government Area, Capt. Peter Yilme told reporters that the eight suspects were arrested in three different operations by naval gunboats on February 6-7 with 47, 42 and 519 bags of rice respectively, being ferried in three medium sized boats. Capt. Yilme, who handed over the suspects and items to the Superintendent of the Nigeria Customs Service, Wasiu Adebowale warned the suspects to desist from illegal businesses as the command will not relent in arresting them. The seized items and the suspects were handed over to the customs by Lt. Commander K. Yusuf on behalf of Capt. Yilme. In an interview, two of the suspects, Michael Okon and Joseph Etim, both from Akwa Ibom state confessed they were forced into bringing the rice from Cameroon as they were hustling to survive. Okon, who also confessed being a first time offender, explained that he took to smuggling because he needed money to bury his dead mother. “I went to Cameroon to go and buy rice and on my way back, the navy stopped me and brought me here. I don’t have money to bury my mum, that is why I decided to go and bring in rice since l don’t have anybody to help me, so that I would have money to bury my mum,” he explained. READ ALSO: Senate bids Ben Uwajumogu farewell Joseph Etim on his part said it was his first time smuggling rice, confessing that the lack of job led him into the illegal act. “I am here because I was caught smuggling rice. I just went to Cameroon to buy rice and on my way coming back, the naval police arrested me. “I don’t have anybody to help me, so when I saw the opportunity, I went to Cameroon. I was hustling to survive; somebody sent me to go and bring the rice,” he sobbed.