A former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Segun
Olulade, has said that the key reasons why the law banning Okada in the state was
passed was to ensure the security and welfare of the people of the state. The ex-lawmaker noted
that the current government’s restriction of Okada and Keke NAPEP from just six
LGAs is a partial implementation, adding that the law applies to all major
roads in every part of the state Olulade spoke against the backdrop of the hardship being experienced
by Lagosians as the ban on Okada and Keke NAPEP bites harder. The law banning the use of Okada on the major roads in Lagos
was passed in 2013 during the administration of Babatunde Raji Fashola who is
now the minister of works and housing. Olulade who was the spokesperson of the state House of
Assembly then explained that the law was put in place to ensure the security
and welfare of the lives of Lagosians. The former lawmaker said data collected from hospitals and
the security agencies indicated that the rampant use of Okada as a means of
transportation in the state was responsible for major roads accidents and security
breach. Olulade said everyone was carried along including the Okada
riders and security agencies during a public hearing before the bill banning
Okada was eventually passed into law. According to the former lawmaker, all stakeholders at the
public hearing agreed that in every constituency/local government in the state,
there are some major roads which Okada riders cannot continue to ply because of
the issue of security and welfare of the people. “The welfare of the people is what we considered
because we saw many lives being lost,” he said. “We cannot allow them to continue to kill the people,
to continue to cause security threats to our state and our people,”
Olulade. He also noted that what the current administration of Babajide
Sanwo-Olu has done with Okada/Keke ban is a partial implementation of the law. The former lawmaker explained that the law stipulates that
Okada cannot be allowed in major roads in all the local government areas in
Lagos while the current administration has only restricted them from just six
local government areas. He noted that the operations of Okada have also been banned in some other states in the country such as Edo, Kano and Abuja. READ ALSO: Aisha Buhari, Patience Jonathan meet at Presidential Villa Asked what palliative measures the government is putting in
place to address the current hardship, Olulade said the current administration
should bring back the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) which was introduced by the
Fashola administration and make it sustainable. He also noted that Okada riders were not banned from
operating in the streets, adding that the riders should challenge any
enforcement that is contrary to the law. “The safety of the people of Lagos is paramount to the
government of Lagos,” he reiterated.