President Muhammadu Buhari has challenged the youths of the
country to cooperate with his regime, telling them that they are endangering
their future if they do not back the government. Buhari spoke during his visit to Borno State where about 30 people were killed by suspected Boko Haram insurgents on Sunday, to reassure the people of the state of the determination of the government to bring the insurgency in the country to an end. Oshiomole donates 200 bags of rice to IDPs in the N/East He noted that because the youth are a larger part of the
country’s population, they must help the government stabilise the country. According to him, “We have young aggressive youths, the
Nigerian youths. Our population, 60 percent, is below 30 years old.” “And we have to remind them that they must help us stabilise
this country so that they can have a better future. If they don’t cooperate
with the government, they are endangering their future. “I am already 77, how
many years do I expect under normal circumstances?” Buhari also said he wondered how Boko Haram survived to
date. “As commander in chief, I campaigned both in 2015 and last
year on three fundamental issues which include security; you cannot preside
over an institution or a country if it is not secure. This is just common sense,
everybody knows this even those that have not gone to school know this,” he
said. “This Boko Haram or whatever they are, cannot come up to
Maiduguri or environs without the local leadership knowing because
traditionally the local leadership is in charge of security in their own
respective areas. So with my understanding of our culture, I wonder how Boko
Haram survives up till now. “We are working for
you in this country. As commander in chief, I am dealing with the security
institutions and I believe there is an improvement in security. “I urge the people of the state to cooperate with the law
enforcement agencies and let us deny Boko Haram access to our loyal citizens
and encourage displace people to go back to the land.”