Emirates has concluded arrangements to create a memorable travel experience for its customers for Valentine’s Day. The airline will serve 40 unique Valentine’s Day-themed desserts and treats to serve on board and across its network of lounges spread over six continents.     To celebrate the season of love, Emirates’ chefs have created Valentine’s Day desserts for most of its 41 lounges worldwide from 13-15 February. A/Ibom assembly seeks relocation of DPR, ExxonMobil to state The culinary creations include an orange-ginger Panna
cotta served with berries and pistachios in Hamburg; heart-shaped shortcake
served with fresh strawberries and whipped cream in Cape Town; Chocolate and
Raspberry petit fours in Auckland; a chocolate St Valentine’s cake in Narita;
and chocolate-covered strawberries sprinkled with coconut in the lounges in the
USA. The seven Emirates lounges in Dubai are also putting on a full
Valentine’s spread from 13-15 February. Frequent flyers can enjoy a champagne
treat with the lively and generous notes of Moet & Chandon Rosé Impérial.
This will be accompanied by a selection of Valentine’s inspired cakes and
desserts including a passion fruit cake with raspberry, red velvet cake and red
velvet ice cream. Coffee lovers can also look for three Valentine’s Day coffee
infusions by Coffee Planet – rose kissed mocha, orange crush latte or a white
latte mocha. According to the airline, onboard meals will be seasoned with
a touch of romance to complement the regionally inspired cuisine. On Valentine’s Day itself, Emirates will serve a special
selection of desserts on longer flights across its network. In First and
Business Class, customers can end their meals on a sweet note with a
heart-shaped passion fruit cake. In the iconic A380 onboard lounge, customers
can enjoy a drink while snacking on pastries as well as strawberries dipped in
dark and white chocolate, while snack baskets in First Class will feature the
limited edition strawberry & cream flavoured Lakrids liquorice. In Economy Class, customers will be served a white chocolate
passion fruit cheesecake for dessert. Customers can equally indulge in the specially created
desserts while watching the over 4,500 channels of entertainment across all classes
including romantic comedies and classics.