The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senator Duoye Diri as the winner of the Bayelsa election. The INEC Chairman who made this announcement at the INEC headquarters in Abuja said the certificate of return will be issued immediately. READ ALSO: Bayelsa gov’ship: APC, PDP differ over Lyon’s sack by S’Court  NIEDIA BRIEFING BY THE CHAIRMAN INDEPENDENT NATIONAL ELECTORAL COMMISSION INEC PROFESSOR MAHMOOD YAKUBU ON THE JUDGEMENT OF THE SUPREME COURT ON THE BAYELSA GOVERNORSIIIP ELECTION HELD AT THE CONFERENCE ROOM lNEC HEADQUARTERS ABUJA ON FRIDAY 14 FEBRUARY 2020 Honourable National Commissioners Secretary
to the Commission Directors The Media Ladies and Gentlemen 1. I welcome you all to this briefing. As you are aware, the Supreme Court of Nigeria yesterday delivered a judgement in a pre-election suit on the Bayelsa State Govemorship election held on 16‘“ November 2019. The Commission has received the Certified True Copy (CTC) of the judgement of the apex court which disqualified the Deputy Governorship candidate and vitiated the joint ticket of the party earlier declared winner in the election. The Court also ordered the Commission to “…declare as winner of the Govemorship election in Bayelsa State the candidate with the highest number of lawfhl votes cast with the requisite constitutional (or geographical spread)”. 2. In compliance with the orders of the
Supreme Court, the Commission met this morning and reviewed the result of the
election in which 45 political parties contested. Without the votes scored by
the All Progressives Congress (APC), whose candidates were deemed not to have
participated in the election, the total number of lawful and valid votes cast in
the election now stand at 146,999. Out of this figure, the candidate of the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) scored the highest number of lawful votes with
143,172. Similarly, the Party has scored more than 25% of the lawful votes cast
in all the eight (8) Local Government Areas of the State. 3. Furthermore, the total number of
registered voters in places where election was not held or cancelled as a
result of sundry violations is 90,822. The candidate of the Accord party has
the next highest score with 1,339 votes. The margin of lead between the
candidates of the PDP and the Accord party is 141,833 votes. With this outcome,
the election is conclusive at first ballot. 4. Consequently, Senator Douye Diri AND
Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo of the PDP are hereby declared winners and
returned elected as Governor and Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State respectively. 5. The detailed result will be shared with
you at this briefing and uploaded on the Commission’s website and social media
platforms shortly. 6. The Commission is aware that the tenure
of the incumbent Governor of Bayelsa State ends at midnight today Friday 14th
February 2020. Therefore, in fulfilment of the requirement of Section 75 of the Electoral
Act 2010 (as amended) the Certificates of Return to the Governor and Deputy
Govemor-elect will be presented to them immediately as ordered by the Supreme
Court.  