Oluwatosin Omosowon,  Abuja – digital economy to reduce the rate
of unemployment in Nigeria In a bid to
create an awareness on the importance of digital economy as a means to curb the
rate of unemployment in Nigeria, Dr. Isa Pantami, the Minister of
Communications and Digital economy has begun a mentorship program for secondary
students across the country. READ ALSO:  Monetise social media data, Pantami urges young Nigerians Pantami, delivering a mentorship lecture titled, “Digital Economy and Emerging Technologies” on Monday in Abuja stated that he is more interested in ensuring that Nigerian youths especially those in secondary schools become more acquainted with the thriving digital economy. Pantami who revealed that National Digital
Economy Policy launched by President Buhari on the 28th of November
2019, said that it was aimed to provide a platform for digital technologies to
stimulate growth in all sectors of the economy, especially in the area of job
provision. Daily times describes
digital economy as an economy that encompasses businesses that sell goods and
services via the internet, and digital platforms that connect spare capacity
and demand. Pantami, stated that the
contemporary world being dominated by digital economy is rapidly replacing the
traditional economy as emerging technologies coming up with revolutions that
are changing the world. “If you look at it
today, the world is being dominated by digital economy, which is replacing the
traditional economy and emerging technologies coming up with revolutions that
are a complete changing the world” Furthermore, Pantami who
frowned at the incessant rate of unemployment in the country said, “digital
economy will create an enabling environment for the promotion of digital jobs
across the length and breadth of the country”, he said. He noted, “The job
opportunities we have in this country is really worrisome, if you look at the total
number of graduates every year, it’s really worrisome, students struggling on
campus to eat two-squared meal when they graduate, there is no job, when they
get the job, the salary will not take them up, because of this, we need to be
more interested in producing more employers instead of continuing to produce
potential job employees.” Hence to produce
potential job employers, he has decided to change the trend by organizing
mentorship programs for youths in secondary school to ensure that they are
guided in making the rest choice of career choices from a young age, especially
in the soon to be digitally economy dominated world. He stated, “this is a
general mentorship class, what I discovered that many of our children in
secondary do not get the right mentorship they require, guidance and
counselling to determine their career in the future, usually, they only choose
across based on how they are interested in the name. “So when they are
interested they just apply, and I think we need to be visiting their schools;
providing mentorship for them; guiding them; so that they will prepare and
choose relevant disciplines that would be very critical, “he noted. He also revealed that
these mentorship program will change their perception of being potential job
seekers to being potential job providers.