The Director, Consumer
Protection Directorate (CPD), Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has
declared that flight delays and cancellations are unavoidable in the global
aviation industry. He,
 however, said that
despite this, the regular agency would ensure that the rights of the 
flying the public were not trampled upon by airlines and other 
organisations in the
sector. Abdullahi stated this
over the weekend in an interview with our correspondent in his office at the
Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. According to Abdullahi,
some of the delays were due to operational and safety reasons like weather,
mechanical failure and Very Important Personality (VIP) movements, stressing
that the agency would not sacrifice safety for passengers’ comfort. Apart from safety and
operational reasons, he declared that NCAA has had cause to sanction erring
airlines for fulfilling their obligations to passengers, but said such
sanctions were not for the public domain. He said: “Delays and
flight cancellations are inevitable in the aviation industry. They just happen.
The regulations realise that. That is why we looked at it and we decided to
ensure compensation to passengers. However, I will prefer to call it
refreshments for the passengers, rather than compensation. “If you delay a passenger
for up to two hours, you have to give him some kinds of refreshments. You must
have a way of compensating him until the flight is announced. There are many
reasons for delays and cancellations. Most of them are safety based. When
safety is involved, we don’t discuss comfort and we even encourage airlines to
delay or cancel flights whenever they have technical issues or weather-related
issues. “So, when an airline can
prove to us that it delayed a flight due to safety, then, they are off the
hook. Then that won’t attract sanctions. We don’t announce it when we sanction
airlines because sanctions are like de-marketing for the airlines. “They don’t
like their sanctions being announced. We are not passenger service, rather
consumer protection. Airlines, concessionaires and handling companies are part
of consumer services.” In a bid to promote
safety in the sector, Abdullahi explained that NCAA encouraged non-punitive
reporting system, which inspires airlines to report issues in their operations
to the authority. Besides, he explained that NCAA was working assiduously with the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and state-owned airport operators to reduce infrastructural challenges in the system. READ ALSO: CBN approves 6 coys access to FX for milk, dairy products importation Abdullahi emphasised
that NCAA participate in a monthly meeting headed by airport managers in
various geographical airports, adding that through this, challenges affecting
smooth operations are discussed and resolved by all stakeholders. He, however, pointed out
that some improvements had been recorded in airport infrastructure in recent
time with the opening of some new airports like Port Harcourt and Abuja for
passenger use and lauded Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation for some
positives in the sector. “I will say there have
been tremendous improvements in our airports in recent years. Look at the new
terminals in Port Harcourt and Abuja. I am sure that we will not have issues in
the next 20 to 25 years with these terminals,” he said.