Governor
Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state has said that there is no hiding place for
criminals in the state as his administration will ensure synergy between the
security agencies and the state government to make the state safe and secure. Gov. Bala
stated this on Wednesday at a taking and handing over ceremony of arms and
ammunition recovered from criminals by a renowned hunter and fighter of armed
robbers and kidnappers, Alhaji Ali Kwara at the Government House in Bauchi. The governor
said that the arms were recovered in Burra Forest arising from the activities
of Alhaji Ali Kwara in collaboration with the police who confiscated them from
bandits who are now at large. “There
are some informants within and outside the towns of Bauchi and environs that
are helping us to do this and this is also in collaboration between Bauchi
state government, Ali Kawra, the police and other security agencies so that we
will be able to have some concrete engagement with a view to identifying all
these bandits and armed robbers that have migrated from Zamfara and other
places looking for abode in our forests. “We know there are some in Yankari Forest, we know there are some in Lame/Burra and we know there are some even along Dass Road. Because of intelligence we are getting from DSS and other security agencies, they should know that they have no place to stay in Bauchi state,” he declared. 3 Ekiti teachers in police net for alleged rape The
governor while thanking the inspector general of police for his efforts toward
deepening community engagement handed over the recovered arms and ammunitions
to the Commissioner of Police in the state, Philip Maku. “We
will now surrender these arms and ammunitions received from Ali Kwara to the police
for custody and also ask the Nigerian military to put their members in Ali
Kwara’s team. We are ready to support them with wherever token of support in terms
of mobility and logistics to be able to keep Bauchi state safe and
secure,” the governor added. Earlier,
the renowned hunter, Alhaji Ali Kwara told the governor that the guns were
recovered from bandits hiding underground in Burra Forest after a tip-off. “The
guns that you are seeing today, there is an armed robber we’ve been trailing
for long, he is involved in kidnapping in this area and he also operates around
Taraba, Benue and Plateau states. He used to come from Zamfara state. “He
was brought to me voluntarily by his father having noticed that I have swung
into action that has affected some of his colleagues. When he came, he informed
me that there are strangers who have smuggled arms into Bauchi and that he took
part in hiding the guns underground. “He
took us to Lame/Burra Forest where we recovered these guns. The boy is in my custody.
I didn’t allow him to go out because people know him and they may lynch him,”
the hunter stated. Alhaji
Kwara, who said 43 guns, 1,117 ammunition and 30 cartridges were recovered,
informed the governor that he is working in collaboration with about 50 police officers
in the fight against armed robbery, banditry and other violent crimes, which he
has been doing voluntarily for the past 21 years. Commissioner
of Police, Philip Maku said the police will take- over the arms and ammunition
for further investigation that can lead to the arrest of the culprits. He
appealed to members of the public in the state to cooperate with the police by
not hiding people with questionable characters in their midst, adding that
community engagement in security is very important.