The intelligence response team from the Force Headquarters has arrested
a 34-year- old female teacher, Grace Ibrahim for spreading false information
that a policeman was involved in the kidnap of a Kaduna doctor, Philip Ataga’s
wife and two children. The kidnappers killed the wife who was kidnapped alongside her two
children while the children were released on February 6, 2020. In a post that went viral on social media networks, Ibrahim had said one
of the children had identified a neighbour, who is a policeman as the person
that ordered the shooting of their mother. Ibrahim, who was paraded at the Force Headquarters, apologized for the
viral message, saying she did not verify it before spreading it. Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, who paraded the suspect said
that “while we were working on that case, we woke up to a very damaging viral
post that made allegations to the effect that a policeman was implicated in the
kidnapping and subsequent murder of the deceased. ‘’It was a very damaging insinuation and our operatives immediately set
out to investigate the source and origin of that story. Today, after days of
investigation, we traced that post that went viral to the young woman here,
Grace Ibrahim, a teacher, who from nowhere originated that post. “This is a classical example of fake news and the major problem with
this kind of fake news is that not only is it false and irresponsible, but can
actually set the people against the police. ‘’This kind of story has the capacity of damaging the very important
relationship between the police and members of the public. The success of every
police department is predicated on the kind of support they get from members of
the public. “Once trust and confidence from members of the public are eroded, no
police agency can function effectively. So, when you spread this kind of false
story, insinuating that police officers are now the ones carrying out
kidnapping and killing innocent people, whose lives they have been charged,
employed, trained, equipped and paid to preserve, then you are damaging a very
vital ingredient of a stable society. “Fake news of this nature is also very distractive. Resources that would
have been otherwise used in investigating important cases are sometimes
diverted to trying to investigate the source of these kinds of stories. “We have also seen in the past where fake news has triggered communal
clashes and reprisal attacks, and innocent persons are attacked and killed, and
properties damaged. “I use this opportunity to appeal to members of the public, particularly, our teeming youths to exercise a lot of caution in the use of the social media. You have to be circumspect before you push out that story. If you are not sure of the authenticity of that story or you cannot confirm if indeed it is true, please don’t push the button on your phone. Caregiver docked for defiling teenager, raping woman with Down syndrome ‘’Don’t push out that story. It is also a criminal offence. Our cyber
laws are very clear. We would go after you, arrest and prosecute you. It is not
enough defence to say forwarded as received. Once you forward, you have put
your signature on that story, at the point you are forwarding the story, you
have become a co-author of that story.’’ Meanwhile, Grace Ibrahim, speaking to journalists said that she has
regretted her action, adding that “I apologize to the police for putting out
information that was false because I did not verify it. “It was based on hearsay and I just put it out there. I did not think
about the implication and I am very sorry because the information was false. I
heard it from a colleague. I wish to apologize. “I did not confirm and decided to post, which was bad of me. When I saw
it was going viral, I decided to pull it down because that was when I realized
what l did was wrong and I really want to apologize to the police.”