The Economic and
Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) on Monday re-arraigned the former Governor of
Plateau state, Senator Jonah Jang and a cashier at the office of the secretary
to the state government, Yusuf Pam on alleged N6.3 billion fraud. Jang and Pan were first arraigned in June 2018, on a 17 -count charge bothering on misappropriation of funds, criminal breach of trust and corrupt advantages. Osun assembly holds public hearing on ‘Amotekun’ The anti-graft
agency said the offences contravene the provisions of Sections 315, 309, 19 and
22 (5) of the Penal Code and Corrupt Practices Act 2004 (as amended). In 2018, Justice
Daniel Longji, on his last sitting on the bench on December 29, 2019, dismissed
the defendants’ no-case-submission and held that the defendants have a case to
answer. Chief Judge of the
state, Justice Yakubu Dakwak, subsequently, reassigned the case to Justice
Christy Dabup for continuation of trial. At the resumed
hearing on Monday before Justice Dabup, the EFCC counsel, A.O. Otolade, applied
for the fresh arraignment of the two defendants since the case was starting
de-no-vo (afresh). “I urge your
lordship to permit us, the prosecution read the charges to the accused for them
to take their pleas,” Otolade pleaded, but when the charges were read to the
defendants, they pleaded not guilty. Otolade then
applied for an adjournment to enable the prosecution prepare for its case
against the defendants, revealing that the prosecution would be calling about
15 witnesses to testify in the case. But, Jang’s lawyer,
Edward Pwajok (SAN) opposed the application for adjournment and pleaded with
the court to allow the bail earlier granted his clients on May 24, 2018 to
continue. “My Lord, we wish
to humbly apply orally that bail be granted the accused persons as earlier
granted to them on May 24, 2018 as well as maintain the bail bonds. “The sureties who
took them on bail are still willing to stand for them till the conclusion of
this matter before your Lordship,” Pwajok explained. Counsel to the
second accused person, Sunday Odeh, concurred with Pwajok’s plea. While the EFCC counsel
did not object to their pleas, he however, urged the court to order the
sureties to produce affidavits to show that they were still standing for the
defendants. Justice Dabup
however, granted the bail application and adjourned the case until May 26- 28
for definite hearing of the case and ordered the sureties to provide affidavits
to the court within four days to show that they were still standing for the defendants