Maverick singer/songwriter and activist, Charles Oputa, a.k.a ‘Charlyboy’,  says his latest socially conscious song ‘God of Men’, is to warn Nigerians against  the gimmicks of ‘fake clerics’ in society. The 68-year-old showbiz maestro made this known in an interview on Wednesday in Abuja. Suspected Odumeje’s members brutalizing a lady for making fun of him on social media (video) Charlyboy recently released video for the single ‘God of Men (Fake Pastors)’, featuring popular rapper, Falz and veteran Nollywood star, Segun Arinze appearing as  a ‘Fake Pastor’. The Afrobeat track, produced by Acesoundz  and directed by Unlimited L.A, is a semblance of Fela’s classic, ‘Amen’. The song has however generated mixed reactions from Nigerian music fans, industry watchers and religious people alike with some questioning the essence of bringing religion and clerics into secular music. Charlyboy, however said that the idea behind the song was to caution religious Nigerians against the upsurge of  manipulative and exploitative tendencies of  ‘fake clerics’ in recent times. He explained further that religious mentality was one of  the plights facing society today, adding that he chose the title  ‘God of Men’, realising that many Nigerians ‘worship religious leaders.’ “There are many genuine clerics out there but the ones that are out to scam Nigerians need to be called out and exposed. “How can a pastor instruct his members to eat grass and they will obey or make them lie down and then he will walk on them. “Many Nigerians have been carried away by fake prophesies and all sort of manipulations in the name of religion, and it is time someone tell them to wake up,” he said. The “Nwata Miss” crooner, who released his debut highlife album over three decades ago, said that he had decided to use music as a tool to inspire ordinary Nigerians, drive societal change and value re-awakening. The former President of Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria (PMAN), said that the release of the acclaimed ‘God  of Men’,  has attracted a lot of invitation for his life performances. “Music has been my age-long passion and this time, I am using it to awake the consciousness of all Nigerians, no matter where they are towards a better society,” he said. (NAN)