The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin, says synergy among security services is very crucial to ensuring success in the fight against terrorism and other criminal elements in the country. Olonisakin stated this on Monday in his opening remarks at the Armed Forces Command and Staff College Joint Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency (CTCOIN) Seminar for students of Senior Course 42, in Jaji, Kaduna State. The CDS was represented by Rear Admiral Dalapo Kolawole, Director Training and Operation Defence Headquarters. Supreme Court judgement: Group asks Oshiomhole to take responsibility for the loss of Bayelsa The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the three days seminar, is ‘Enhancing Jointness in CTCOIN Operations through Collaboration.’ According to Olonisakin, the theme is apt and timely considering the enormous roles currently being played by the Armed Forces and other security agencies in confronting the various security challenges bedevilling the country. “There is no doubt that our security forces require synergy and effective collaboration to succeed in the discharge of the onerous task of securing the nation.” He said it is essential for all services participating in an operation to make common efforts to achieve a common goal. “When there is no synergy between various parties in conflict or in an operations working independently, there is waste of energy, time and resources. “But when there is synergy and cooperation between the services all of them will act as one force moving towards achieving common objectives, that is why synergy is important. “I also find the seminar most appropriate as majority of the students would be deployed to the field in command and staff appointments upon graduation from the college. “The college has therefore made concerted efforts at selecting some notable commanders across the three services who are vast on CTCOIN and joint operations. ”In those appointments, you would be required to take critical decision that would determine the fate of officers and men under your command. “As tactical level commanders, you have vital roles to play in the execution of your higher commander’s plan, you will do this successfully by imbibing training, discipline and being flexible in your thoughts and reasoning,” the defence chief said. NAN report that six papers will be presented during the three days seminar which include, Enhancing operational efficiency in CTCOIN operations through Inter-Agency collaborator; Joint collaboration and CTCOIN: Operation Lafiya Dole in perspective. Other papers  are on ‘Building Partnership to synergize Services Capabilities for Combating Security threats; Optimising the Gains of Joint Training for Enhanced CTCOIN operations in Nigeria; and Enhancing CTCOIN Operations Through Joint Logistics and Cooperation among services to constructively address security challenges.