The reconciliation talks over the controversial demolition of Ile Arugbo
in Ilorin, Kwara state which commenced last Thursday has collapsed. The meeting between the representatives of the state government and Asa
Investment Limited ended yesterday without a concrete resolution and without a
specific adjourned date. Briefing newsmen at the end of the one- hour meeting held at the
conference hall of the governor’s office in Ilorin, counsel to Asa Investment Limited,
Abdul Ibrahim said the two parties could not reach any concrete agreement. “Today is the second time we are meeting on this issue of
settlement out of court, but up till now we have not been able to agree on
definite terms. “We have adjourned for us to meet again and see if we can iron out the
proposed terms of settlement and counter- proposed terms of settlement. That’s
where we are now. We hope to meet again before the next adjourned date for the
case. No date yet. We adjourned indefinitely,” Ibrahim revealed. None of the government’s representatives was willing to respond to
reporters inquiries at the end of yesterday’s meeting. In line with the agreement reached on January 24 by the counsel to the Kwara
state government and Asa Investment Limited on the need to settle the issue of
the demolished Ile Arugbo out of court, representatives of the two parties had
last Thursday held the inaugural reconciliation meeting. After sitting for one hour, the parties adjourned until yesterday for
further discussion. Our correspondent recalls that the state High Court sitting in Ilorin,
had on January 15, advised parties in the suit to in the interest of peace,
explore an out of court settlement over the disputed land on which the late Olusola
Saraki’s Ile Arugbo was built. In another ruling on January 24, Justice Abiodun Adebara urged the parties to resolve the case amicably before the next adjourned date. READ ALSO: Kogi has over 1,000 unregistered private schools, commissioner reveals “This court is particularly, impressed by the parties for the steps
taken to settle out of court; they are therefore, enjoined to engage in
meaningful discussions that will lead to the resolution of the case out of
court. I wish the parties well in their deliberations. “With the concurrence of the learned counsel, this case is adjourned to
March 2 for the report of out-of-court settlement,” the judge had ruled.