Following the restriction on individuals
from trading in the Open Market Operations (OMO), local investors now invest
their funds in equities market of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and foreign
exchange market, analysts at EFG Hermes have said. They expressed in a report that local non-banks like Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), individuals, companies, Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries and state governments owned N7.5 trillion of the CBN bills as at September 2019 (before the CBN decision), which is equivalent to 42per cent of the total. FERMA assures constant maintenance of Nigeria roads—MD According to the Investment Bank, PFAs owned
N2.3 trillion in CBN bills at the end of September, leaving N5.1 trillion in
the hands of other local investors to be reinvested as these CBN bills mature. The report stated that “Some of this money
will go into equities, but mutual fund data for the fourth quarter of 2019 show
a strong preference for fixed income in Naira and Dollar over equities. “Money market funds alone saw inflows of
N160 billion in the three months after the CBN decision on OMOs. “We note that there were also significant
flows into bond mutual funds, many of which are entirely or partly focused on
fard currency paper-like Eurobonds. “We think some locals that had been blocked
from the primary OMO market from late October 2019 actually bought from
foreigners in late 2019.” The report also stated that the equity
market benefited from the ban, as the market rallied strongly, with blue chips
outperforming, and the all-share index up by 9.2per cent between November and
January. Analysts at EFG Hermes said that the
equities rally might also have been driven by the seasonal hunt for yields by
investors as blue chips usually won’t pay final dividends until March/April. Chief Research Analyst, EFG Hermes, Simon
Kitchen explained that the surge in the equities market at that time coincided
with the seasonal rally in Nigerian stocks ahead of the dividend season, and it
is expected that the market will continue to consolidate as dividends are paid
in March-April this year. “We have looked at the performance of
high-yielding stocks in the run-up to final dividend distributions over the
past 10 years. “Expectedly, we see a sustained rally in the
three months before dividends are paid, though with periods of profit-taking;
more surprisingly, stocks continue to perform in the weeks after the
ex-dividend date, perhaps as dividends are reinvested,” Kitchen s