Asaba – The Nasru–lahi-I-fatih Society (NASFAT) has admonished its members and all Muslims to shun any act of discrimination, exploitation, injustice and degradation of human dignity. Its Chief Missioner, Imam Abdul-Azeez Onike, also urged them to uphold equal opportunity for every individual to achieve the goals and needs, being a concept popularly referred to as “social justice”. Onike gave the admonition in a statement while commenting on the 2020 World Day for Social Justice that was marked globally on Feb. 20. LG poll: Police announce restriction  in Enugu He said that setting aside a day to commemorate the day was good, but “it is better to move it beyond revolutionary slogan status”. The World Day of Social Justice is an international day recognising the need to promote social justice. According to Wikipedia, an online publication, the day is to also to tackle issues such as poverty, exclusion, gender equality, unemployment, human rights, and social protections. Onike also urged them to ensure there is clear indications of efforts and commitment to bridge the existing current inequalities in the world. He said: “It should reflect in human rights, dignity and freedom of expression for workers. “It should also be extended to economic, social and political autonomy and ensuring every human being is provided with basic needs that preserves his honour and dignity, as it is enjoined in the scripture.” Onike said that Islam has laid down rules and foundations to regulate relationship among all individuals of the society, adding, “among these foundations is that of social justice”. He said: “Islam is about justice, mercy, goodness and wisdom, “Referencing Ali Al-Halawani, the real date of birth of social justice was when the religion of Islam was formally institutionalised and perfected by Allah. “This day I have perfected your religion for you, completed My favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion. “It is the duty of the rich to meet the needs of the poor and destitute in their villages and towns. “States have the right to take their surplus of wealth, if necessary by force to meet the needs of the poor in their community.” According to Onike, Bilal, a black Ethiopian, played an important role of serving as a caller to prayer to Prophet Muhammad(Pbuh). “This underscores the fact that, there should be equal and fair treatment with no discrimination in our dealings. “Some of the principles of Islamic jurisprudence, which highlight that relationship among members of the society, must be justly and fairly organised. “Harms must be eliminated and hardship begets facility,” the chief missioner said. Onike said that some of the social justice tools and elements in Islam are “Zakat and Sadaqah, laws of inheritance and bequest, monetary atonement, prohibition of Usury, hoarding, illegal acquisition of wealth”. “Encouraging fair treatment of women, girls, orphan, widow and underserved, getting slave freed and Allah’s command that labourers wages must be paid before his sweat dries,” he said. (NAN)