The  Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said that the invitation of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu to the  US Republicans Party  campaign rally on Des Moines Iowa on Thursday, January  is to show that IPOB momentum is unstoppable and Biafra restoration inevitable. IPOB in a statement by Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, hailed the invitation saying ‘“It is ironic that a man injuriously labelled a terrorist by a biased, corrupt, discredited and dysfunctional judiciary in Nigeria is being accorded VIP status in an event attended by the president of the United States of America whereas Nigeria has been placed on a list of terror ravaged countries banned from entering the US. What this proves is that rulers of Nigeria are the real terrorists’ Kidnapped Taraba NBA Vice Chairman released by abductors IPOB also appreciated the leadership of the US Republicans Party  for their invitation saying: “We the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) wish to appreciate the leadership of the US Republicans Party in Iowa for their invitation to our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu as a special guest at Trump campaign rally on Des Moines Iowa on Thursday, January 30, 2020. “Our leader
was granted entry to the VIP section of the arena reserved for the top echelon
of the Republican Party in the state including the Iowa State Governor Kim
Reynolds whom he met briefly. “It is ironic that a man injuriously labelled a
terrorist by a biased, corrupt, discredited and dysfunctional judiciary in
Nigeria is being accorded VIP status in an event attended by the president of
the United States of America whereas Nigeria has been placed on a list of
terror ravaged countries banned from entering the US. What this proves is that
rulers of Nigeria are the real terrorists. “Our leader
Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and the Directorate of State of the Indigenous People of
Biafra (DOS) are working very hard and round the clock with stakeholders and
most powerful countries in the world to ensure that Biafra is restored
peacefully and as soon as possible. “The Nigeria
Government, South East governors and Ohaneze Ndigbo led by John Nnia Nwodo that
proscribed and tagged IPOB terrorists can now see that IPOB momentum is
unstoppable and Biafra restoration inevitable. “We are
calling on every Biafran both at home and abroad, particularly the IPOB family
worldwide, to remain strong and determined because we are nearly there. “No mortal
born of a woman can stop Biafra from coming or the freedom that will bring for
all other trapped nationalities in Nigeria. “Our freedom is ordained from the
most high God in heaven. The success of our ongoing global engagement and
diplomatic strangulation of Nigeria will set all captives free.”