.As ICPC partners
with PEBEC to prosecute corrupt public officials In a bid to secure the reforms agenda of the Federal Government, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, has said that rubust collaboration between the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) would help to improve the business climate in Nigeria Expedite work on Wudil – Gaya road, Aliyu charges contractors The VP made this disclosure at the meeting of the
Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), which he presided
on Monday. Prof. Osinbajo, in a statement signed by the Senior
Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice
President, Laolu Akande, said that there will now be a direct connection
between the anti-corruption agenda of the Buhari administration and the reform
efforts of the Federal Government. He explained that this will secure the reforms
through criminal investigation and prosecution of public complaints, while the
ICPC will carry out such prosecution where necessary. According to him, complaints from Nigerians regarding
activities and practices in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)
bordering on suspected corruption and deliberate stalling of reform efforts
would now be referred from the REPORTGOV.NG portal of PEBEC to the ICPC for
investigation and prosecution. While noting that the Buhari administration remains
committed to tackling corruption, Prof. Osinbajo said, “There is a lot of
talk about high-level corruption and some public officials stealing money, etc;
but I think for average Nigerians, the point of contact is really this sort of
approvals for ID cards, for passports, customs, officials, police, and so
on.” Speaking oin the essence of the collaboration, Prof.
Osinbajo noted that collaboration between PEBEC and the ICPC is an important
step in achieving the FG’s reform agenda, especially regarding all government
MDAs regulating business environment responsibilities, thereby ensuring a more
condusive environment for businesses in the country. “I think that if this collaboration is robust
enough, we will be able to kill two birds with one stone; first is improving
our Ease of Doing Business, second is our anti-corruption ranking
internationally, because some of the ranking is a perception index. So, people
are simply asked, what is your perception about corruption in Nigeria? “So, if we work on these issues, we can really
do a lot in terms of improving the image of the country, not just in the Ease
of Doing Business rankings, but also in terms of perception of
corruption.” It would be recalled that following the issuance of
Executive Order 01 (EO1) in May 2017, and subsequent directive of the PEBEC to
track implementation of the Order, PEBEC, through its Enabling Business
Environment Secretariat (EBES), began tracking the compliance of MDAs to the
EO1. Consequently, to make it easier to resolve issues
relating to government agencies, PEBEC developed an online platform,
REPORTGOV.NG, for the public to lodge complaints and provide feedback on
services rendered by MDAs. Complaints from the portal would now proceed to the
ICPC where and when necessary.