Lagos – The Radio Television Theatre and Arts Workers Union of Nigeria (RATTAWU), Lagos State Council, has described radio as a tool that unite communities to foster positive dialogue for change. Mr Dare Durosinmi, the RATTAWU Chairman, spoke at a public lecture organised by the union on Thursday in Lagos. The event, organised in commemoration of the “World Radio Day” is marked annually on Feb. 13 with the theme: “The Importance of Radio Broadcast to the Society”. “Radio is a powerful tool, even in today’s world of competitive digital communications. It reaches more people than any other media platform. “It conveys vital information and raises awareness on important issues; it is a vital way of informing, reuniting and empowering people,’’ the chairman said. Durosinmi said that radio could be used for conflict resolution, peace and provide security of lives and property. He said, “that is why we are gathered today to talk about how we can use radio as a tool to solve some challenges in the country, including security.” Also, Mr Ajibola Abiola, Director, National Broadcast Academy, identified the commercialisation of radio industry, poor funding and poor remuneration of staff working in the radio stations as some of the problems facing the industry. Abiola said that commercialisation of the industry had overridden broadcasting in the national interest, saying that was having a toll on the radio industry. “Many radio stations have not been able to adequately pay salaries and that is a very huge challenge. “As such, staff may not put in their best; work with the mandate of the industry and achieve national integration,’’ he said. The academy director also said that another challenge facing the industry was the erratic issuance of licence to anybody. He urged regulators of the industry to address the challenge by applying sanctions where necessary and ensure that the industry was regulated to bring sanity. In his remarks, Mr Joshua Ajayi, a Deployment Editor with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), West Africa, said there was need to target more women and young people to listen to radio. Ajayi said that women and young people should have more information and education. “BBC is making attempt to target audience category to provide content that appeals to them and add values to lives on radio. “More young people are going digital, looking at entertainment more than information; as practitioners, we need to make efforts to guide them on the usefulness of information,” he said. (NAN) How I’ll Eradicate Malaria in Nigeria – Hon Nwoko