Aero Maintenance Repair
Overhaul ( MRO) and  Ramco systems, a global software provider based in
Chennai, India has entered a technical partnership that would be automated the
former’s MRO processes and bring more efficiency into its operations. The partnership which includes N200 million investment by Aero in the last five years to join Ramco’s network ensures that the MRO service provider has improved digital solutions that will eliminate the misses brought about by the manual processes a transform Aero from a paper-based to a paperless MRO following emerging trends. Reps places status enquiry on JAMB According to the CEO,
Aero Contractors, Captain Ado Sanusi, the new software will also create
effective manpower utilization and digitize the maintenance processes. Sanusi  also said
that every aspect of the airline’s MRO services can now be accessed and tracked
real-time for enhanced efficiency stating that by the process, Aero as an MRO
will not miss anything due to the automation of the process. “As our services increased
in scope with more third party equipment being brought to Aero’s MRO facility
for maintenance. There was a need for improved streamlining of our operations
through digitalization. The management of Aero, therefore, contracted Ramco, an
aviation software solution provider to offer a software solution that covers
everything monitoring services from the time we enter into a contract with a
client all the way to the time the job is concluded. “It includes the
contract itself, costing, billing, logistics, manpower allocation and optimum
manpower utilization, therefore saving Aero huge cost especially in man-hours
that are paid for but not effectively utilized. “It also provides
efficiencies in  Human resource management, purchasing, inventory,
warranty, maintenance, financials, Third-party maintenance  and sales and
its integrated business intelligence tools allow you to measure, monitor and
manage with the help of advanced analytics,” he said. Also speaking, General
Manager Africa, Europe and Middle East Ramco’s, Mekana Sinha, the benefits of
the automation are numerous and with the training given aero staff they will be
able to track every aspect of the job She also explained that
the system will plug revenue leakage without much Ado. Sinha said,” we are
excited to add Nigeria’s leading and oldest MRO, Arrived Contractors company of
Nigeria limited to our clientele. The successful implementation of Ramco
Aviation Suite at Aero will automate manual work execution processes and enable
organization-wide visibility.“With modules for
planning, work execution, stores, procurement, MRO sales and billing process,
Ramco’s integrated Aviation M&E MRO Solution automated and optimizes Aero
Contractors’ MRO Services. “The solution would
help the organization optimize employee utilization and prove efficiency and
accuracy in billing processes Explaining further Aero
Head, MRO, James Ominyi said the entire process which has been years in the
making can’t online in December, stating that staff have been trained and Aero
has been integrated in the system. He said, “we have
trained over 20 people and we took about a month to train our personnel on the
system. They learnt all evaluation processes, tried out various scenarios and
we logged in entries. On the perceived impact,
Ominyi said,” this automation process will not cut manpower but it will ensure
that manpower is judiciously used. “The system will help
ensure optimal utilization for example if the task is 6hours, it will enable
the workers do the task and the company doesn’t pay for work don’t and
check truancy.”