As part of its effort to
support and promote Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Sterling Bank
Plc has announced the creation of The Business Hub (TBH) in Lagos. The financial services provider explained that the Business Hub was created in line with the bank’s strategy to create an enabling environment for young people to grow their businesses with each Hub location customized to fit a sector. Army say troops repelled terrorist attack on Garkida The first space located
at Adebola House, Ikeja is focused on growing the Fashion Industry and has in
the Hub a co-sewing space providing fashion business owners with a sewing
machine, ironing table and weaving machine for as low as 2,000 Naira. The Hub
also has a meeting room, lounge and a modelling agency in it. Head,
 Strategy of the
Bank, Khafil Animashaun, who disclosed this in a statement in Lagos 
recently,
said the bank realized that more needed to be done to support small 
businesses
beyond financial advisory and as such the bank created the Hub as a safe
 and a serene community where young people can ideate, develop and build
 their
businesses. “We understand that
part of our economic development lies on the ingenuity of small-scale
enterprises. We believe it is our role to contribute by creating a platform
that allows that ingenuity thrive by helping the teeming populace upskill and
achieve their business dreams despite the daunting economic situation.”
Animashaun said. The Business Hub has a
co-working lounge; which is utilized by food and drink vendors, a meeting room,
as well as a banking hall all with free Wi-Fi available to guests. Animashaun added that
Sterling would replicate this across the country to ensure that more business
owners get this opportunity. She also added that the Hub would organize free
monthly training, financial advisory, printing and storage services for its
members and she was sure that young business owners would find the environment
inspiring, supportive and well- managed. She said the Hub will
give increased access to the market for food and beverage vendors, fashion
businesses, arts and furniture businesses as well as help in capacity building.