Coronaviruses are types of viruses that typically affect the respiratory tract of mammals, including humans. They are associated with the common cold, pneumonia, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and can also affect the gut. In the weeks since the novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV was first identified, the number of confirmed cases has jumped to more than 31,000 in 25 countries, with over 600 reported deaths. As the global health community fights to contain the growing outbreak, a second, parallel epidemic of misinformation is alarming and confusing the public. On the heels of its outbreak, the World Health Organization (WHO), declared the outbreak ‘’global health emergency’’as the outbreak continues to spread outside China. The main reason for this declaration according to the WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was not what is happening in China but what is happening in other countries. ‘’The concern is that it could spread to countries with weaker health systems’’, Ghebreyesus said. Below, some important facts everyone needs to know about the coronavirus: What is coronavirus? Coronaviruses  are a large group of viruses that are common among animals. In rare cases, they are what scientists call zoonotic, meaning they can be transmitted from animals to humans. A form of the disease, severally described as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) like, was first identified in the 1960s from the nasal cavities of patients with the common cold. However, on December 31 2019, a new strain of this virus was reported in Wuhan, China. Leo Poon, a scientist, who decoded the virus, suggested it had been contracted from animals, although reports have had it that the disease appears not to be as lethal as the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) or SARS. What are the common symptoms of coronavirus? Patients suffering the coronavirus have reported runny nose, sore throat, cough, headache, and days-long fever. However, symptoms may also include a common cold-like upper respiratory disease. Pneumonia or bronchitis has been reported among the aging population and infants, as the disease is known to cause breathing problems among people with immune deficiencies. While avoiding self-diagnoses in cases where one or more of these symptoms are observed is a priority, seeking medical attention is highly recommended if they persist after adequate rest. Coronaviruses, which are RNA viruses, are extremely adaptable and genetically diverse. According to the WHO, kidney failure or even death could result in more severe cases. Chinese health officials had reported that a victim of the disease had suffered renal dysfunction, heart muscle inflammation, and multiple organ damages after his condition deteriorated. Mode of contracting coronavirus Amid the uncertainties, surrounding talks about what animals first caused the MERS and SARS, experts do not know yet what animal may have offset the current Wuhan outbreak. However, when it comes to the human-to-human spread of the disease, experts say it can be contracted through direct contact with the secretions of infected individuals. This includes the droplets in the cough of patients suffering from the disease, their sneeze, handshake, or touching something with which an infected person has been in contact. Channels through which people may be infected then include the mouth, nose, or eyes after having had contact with the virus through the afore-described scenarios. What are the treatment options? Among the reasons why Wuhan’s coronavirus has caused a commotion — sending Asian stock markets tumbling — is that there’s no vaccine or specific treatment as research is only underway. There are also no vaccines yet to prevent coronaviruses as the US’ National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) efforts would take months to reach clinical trials or ultimate fruition. While the WHO had warned that it doesn’t recommend any restriction of travel or trade, experts have continued to advocate the seek-early-treatment gospel to avert deterioration and severity. READ ALSO: Kidnapped monarch’s wife found dead after ransom payment in Imo There are also fears that existing remedies address only the symptoms as doctors continue the prescription of fever medication while the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suggests a hot shower to relieve the cough. Room humidifiers, adequate rest as earlier hinted, and consuming more fluids have also proven helpful reducing the severity of some of the disease’s symptoms. What are the preventive measures? One obvious way to avoid contracting the disease is keeping infected persons at arms lengths. However, that could sometimes, be better said than done especially among the nurses. Avoid traveling to high-risk regions while watching the rate at which you unconsciously run your palms towards your eyes, nose, or mouth.