Winners
 have emerged in the maiden edition of the Cadbury Bournfactor Primary 
Schools talent hunt competition which was flagged off last year by the 
beverage and Snack products manufacturer. The  competition which started off formally in 2018 with the Bournvita  Richer Creamier Great Walk is in tune with the brand’s strategic  repositioning and renewed bid to bond further with children and mothers  as well as reward consumers of the brand for their unalloyed loyalty. PDP sympathizes with Lagosians over commercial motorcycle, tricycle ban At
 the end of the weeks-long competition involving over two thousand 
primary schools across the country, top ten schools were randomly 
selected from among participating primary schools spread across cities 
and towns across the country. As
 at the last count, three finalist schools have emerged in the process 
to win overall monetary reward totaling N6 million in the Cadbury 
sponsored talent hunt show. To
 qualify for participation in the completion, each of the school was 
expected to reach fifty entry points mark through purchase of Bournvita 
product cans. In
 a leading order, Mona Schools based in Sapele, Delta State was adjudged
 winner of first cash prize in the worth of N3million and closely 
followed by Difference Academy another primary school situated in Ile 
Ife, Osun State carting away second cash prize of N2million. In the 
third position was Faith Heritage Gold School based in Abeokuta, Ogun 
State which emerged as third runner up in the competition. The school 
was rewarded with the third position cash prize of N1 million for its 
efforts in the competition. Speaking
 during the Cheque presentation ceremony to representatives of the 
winning schools at Cadbury’s corporate premises in Lagos, Managing 
Director of the Company, Oyeyimika Adeboye said that the cash reward 
scheme to the schools as part of the strategic initiative by the company
 through its Bournvita flagship brand to continually identify with the 
schools and reward them for their noble roles aimed at improving and 
growing the child. According
 to the company’s boss, over 60 per cent of Nigeria’s population 
presently put at 200 million is within the 14 years age range, hence the
 decision by the company to positively touch and nourish them for the 
future. She
 added that the company through the initiative was committed to 
constantly contributing to community growth and continually giving back 
to the people for their loyalty to the brand. “The
 future of Nigeria is in the hand of the children. What else can we do? 
This is the starting point. We will do more to touch our community in a 
way that will support our children to grow positively,” she stated. Also
 speaking at the event, representatives of the various winning schools 
commended the company’s management for the brand initiative which they 
said had helped to rekindled hope and confidence in the future of the 
children. Giving
 highlights on modalities for the talent hunt competition, Senior 
Category Manager, Cadbury West Africa, Ifeoma Chuks Adinze explained 
that over 2000 schools across the country were involved in the 
competition out of which 5 top emerging schools were selected prior to 
the final selection process that produced the winning schools.She
 added that the year 2020 edition of the competition would be flagged 
off later on in the year and would be expanded to also include Bournvita
 brand sponsorship of schools end of the year party as well as 
presentations to major orphanage schools