Despite the campaign against drug abuse by government at all
level, non-governmental organisations and individuals, Nigerian youths are
getting neck deeper into the vice. The devastating consequences of drug use know no geographic, economic, social, or ethnic boundaries. Each year hundreds of thousands of people around the globe – rich, poor, educated, illiterate, male, female, and even young children die from drug abuse, and millions more are victims of addiction and drug-fueled violence. FG will refund all state resources used for Federal projects- Gov. Wike Beyond the toll drugs take on health and welfare, substance
use disorders undermine economic development, diminish social and political
stability, and reduce security in countries and regions around the world. It is no longer news that a greater percentage of youth in
Nigeria today get themselves involved in one form of drug abuse or the other. Amidst the widespread commendations over the ban of codeine
and tramadol by the Federal Government, a new large-scale nationwide survey has
revealed that drug use by people within the ages of 15 and 64 years in Nigeria
is on the rise. A survey on drug use in Nigeria last year had revealed that
the nation is breeding a wild generation of drug addicts. This gory state of
affairs of substance abuse calls for the declaration of a state of emergency,
considering the fact that the youth population is the fulcrum of national
development. The nationwide survey by the United Nations Office on Drug
and Crime (UNODC) funded by European Union (EU) in partnership with the Federal
Government said 10.6 million Nigerians abused cannabis in 2018, while 4.6
million abused opium. The report said that 2.4 million youths and adults also
abused cough syrups with 92,000 more using cocaine. Other drugs commonly abused
during the period are tranquilizers and sedatives, solvent, inhalers,
amphetamines and prescription stimulants. This survey also reports that one of four drug users in
Nigeria is a woman. Adding that the extent of drug use in Nigeria is
comparatively high compared to previous global annual prevalence of any drug
abuse use. Basically, youths in the country inhale, inject and consume
psychotic and narcotic substances and drugs at will, easily evading the
scrutiny of a society distracted by economic malaise at the expense of their
future wellbeing. Truth be told, the impact of drug abuse is lethal. Many
families are contending with drug addicts; some of them have quit schooling and
work; others are on the verge of lunacy or battling with acute diseases. The number of drug users in Nigeria is estimated at 14.4 per
cent or 14.3 million people aged between 15 and 64 years according to the
results of the National Drug Use Survey. The data suggests that the prevalence
of past year drug use in Nigeria is more than twice the global average of 5.6
per cent. The extent of drug use in Nigeria is comparatively high when
compared with the 2016 global annual prevalence of any drug use of 5.6 per cent
among the adult population. There is a gap in meeting the needs for treatment and care
for people with drug use disorders. With close to three million Nigerians
living with some level of drug dependence, the extremely limited availability
of drug counselling and treatment services exacerbates this health crisis. This is indeed striking and alarming and calls for concerted
efforts to mitigate the negative consequences of this rising menace on the
health, socio-economic and security of our nation. Even though the Federal Government has over the years
responded boldly to this global challenge with innovative, standard-setting
drug demand reduction programs, we are of the opinion that there is need to
solve the problem. Awareness programmes need to be developed to address the
perception of stigma among the youth and their families over substance use and
to remove barriers towards seeking care for these problems. These programmes should also address the inability of the
youth to perceive addictive behaviours as a health risk. Parents and support persons’ involvement and engagement in
youth programmes should be strengthened further as it improves communication
and better decision-making for youth health issues. Family-based prevention programmes emphasising parenting
skills, training or improving family functioning, communication and family
rules regarding substance abuse needs to be introduced. Also, teachers are a major source of information to young
people. Hence, strengthening the role and performance of educational
institutions, ensuring availability of counselling services, gender sensitivity
issues, making life skills courses a part of curriculum are required for health
and welfare of young people. Most importantly, in all youth related programmes, young
people should be involved and engaged to empower them to take informed
decisions.