The Minister of Labour and Employment,  Sen. Chris Ngige has urged the member countries of the African Regional  Labour Centre (ARLAC) to adopt active policies and programmes to tackle  unemployment and poverty in order to check the consequential social  tension and violent crimes. Speaking  at the 46thsession of the ARLAC with the theme  “Strategic Objective On Social Protection” held over the weekend in  Kampala, Uganda, the Minister said poverty reduction would easily be  achieved by harnessing the efforts of various agencies and departments  charged with  the strategic objective of social protection. Police extends Bayelsa curfew till Sunday “Africa is replete with  tales of 
worrisome level of child labour, human trafficking and exploitation, 
irregular migration, youth restiveness, terrorism, armed banditry and 
arson among others.  Addressing this  as the theme of this high level 
symposium could not have therefore come at a more  auspicious time,” the
 Minister enthused. To achieve this, he called for the 
faithful implementation of the pro-people development model as 
articulated by the Director General of the International Labour 
Organisation (ILO) Guy Ryder during the International Youth Conference 
in Abuja last year. This according to him includes “ the pro-employment 
and economic policies,  policy investments in education and skills , 
promotion of youth entrepreneurship and employment, labour market 
policies as well as respect and protection of the rights of the young 
persons.” Sen. Ngige who is also the Chairman of 
the Government Group of the Governing Board of the ILO  similarly 
informed the gathering that  the Buhari administration has relatively 
achieved a synch with the ILO’s development template  through the 
strategic operationalization of an integrated employment and empowerment
 strategy in the national  development paradigm. “The pro-employment macroeconomic 
policies for job creation ought to be a multi-sectoral agenda of 
government, traversing ministries and agencies. This is exactly what the
 federal government of Nigeria is currently doing by setting 
clear  targets on key economic sectors with high propensity for job 
creation such as Agriculture, Mining, Works and Housing , Trade and 
Investments as well as in special agencies like the  National Social 
Investment Programme as the fulcrum for job creation,” he added. The Minister also noted that 
notwithstanding challenges, Nigeria has increased  focal investment in 
education and skills acquisition in order to contain the mismatch 
between educational skills and demands of the labour market. “We are working to align the 
prerequisites of the labour market with the capacity of the labour force
 in a way to create  synergy and ease responsiveness to innovations. Our
 Ministry of  Labour and Employment is currently spearheading  the shift
 of emphasis from white collar job to the growing  opportunities that 
abound in the blue collar market in line with the changing world of 
work,” Ngige highlighted. He further said there was an urgent need 
for member countries to direct energy on the implementation of the 
decent work priorities and the Sustainable Development Goals as 
articulated in the Abidjan declaration of the 14thAfrican 
Regional meeting “Advancing Social Justice, Shaping the Future of Work 
in Africa,” held in Cote d’Ivoire  in December 2019. He equally commended  the government of 
Ethiopia for the supportive and coordinating role it has been playing 
for the Africa group since last year  Nigeria has been in saddle as the 
chair of  the Government Group of the  ILO Governing Board. “We hope that as we approach the next 
elections into the governing board  which is due in June this year, 
those that will take over the mantle of representing the continent will 
work harder , perform better and be able to surpass the achievements of 
the present board,” he pleaded. He finally called for support for Nigeria
 and other African countries already nominated for positions in the ILO 
Governing board in the election scheduled for June this year. Recall that apart from being the serving 
chairman of the government group of the Governing Board, Nigeria was 
also nominated last year by the African group for election as a titular 
representative in the Governing Board, a position it last held over a 
decade ago.