A
 stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State, Alhaji
 Salisu Ahmed Barau has described the attribution of the party’s failure
 in the 2019 gubernatorial election in the state by some people to the 
chairman of the party, Alhaji Uba Nana as unfair. Alhaji  Barau was reacting to a media reports credited to another chieftain of  the party in the state, Alhaji Hassan Sheriff calling on the state party  chairman Alhaji Uba Ahmed Nana to resign his position over alleged  failure to reconcile aggrieved party members. FG will refund all state resources used for Federal projects- Gov. Wike “There
 are procedures, you don’t just wake up and call for the resignation of 
the chairman without having any basis. Party itself is an institution, 
there are laid down rules and regulations that governs the activities of
 the party, pass through the legal frameworks of the party and then do 
what you want to do. “You don’t just jump and go to Abuja and ask for 
somebody to remove somebody that was constitutionally elected, that is 
our views from the point of APC unity and integrity group,” he argued. Alhaji
 Barau, a former commissioner during Isah Yuguda’s administration who 
spoke to journalists in Bauchi on Sunday on behalf of a group called APC
 unity and integrity group debunked reports of crisis in the party in 
Bauchi State. “In
 the first place, I want to believe that APC is not in crisis in Bauchi 
State. As far as I am concerned, as far as unity and integrity forum on 
whose platform I am speaking today. I am saying this because those who 
are calling for the resignation of the chairman of the party if they are
 basing their allegations on the fact that the APC has lost election in 
Bauchi, I think they are being naïve.” While
 describing those calling for the resignation of the party chairman as 
political contractors, Alhaji Barau said that “the problem is brought by
 those we call political contractors who will go and collect money from 
aggrieved persons and come down and plot allegations across, baseless 
allegations.” The
 party chieftain who insisted that the party in the state is intact 
under the leadership of Ahmed Uba Nana, maintained that it is not proper
 to hinge the successes or otherwise of the party on a single 
individual. According
 to him, “what I want people to understand is that the leadership of a 
party like APC in the state is not hinged on Nana alone. From my 
understanding of the whole saga, those calling for his resignation are 
those people who are not interested in his kind of leadership whether 
privately or personally. “As
 a leader like I said, you can only do what you can do within the 
confines of the party’s constitution, and that is what Nana is doing to 
the best of my knowledge,” the APC stalwart said. “As
 people of faith, leadership is from God and it is he who gives to the 
person he wishes. And first of all, as the person who believes in the 
existence of God, you have to believe that it is God who has destined 
that this time around APC will lose Bauchi. It is not only Bauchi State 
that APC has lost the seat of a governor,” he added.