The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has commissioned a
664MW transformer in Lagos. Speaking at the official groundbreaking ceremony of the
company reconductoring project,  Ikeja-West Sub- Region, Ipaja-Ayobo in
Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer , Transmission Company of Nigeria, Mr. Usman
Muhammed said, the line has  664 mega watt capacity of the transformer, which
will increase the current capacity by 2.5 per cent.

“We need a line that will be strong enough to supply
power to the transformers and what we are doing is the commissioning ceremony
for changing those old wires to a new one they call cap conductor that can
perform two and half times the capacity of the current one and also withstand
the temperature of above 200°c” “It is lighter than the current one, and it won’t have problems with towers and also will improve the power supply of Ikeja Electric” he averred. Maryam Sanda appeals death sentence, files 20 grounds of appeal Reacting to the concern of Right of Way (RoW) which the
company is currently facing, he said, the company is  getting the right
partnership with the Lagos  state government in finding  a lasting
solution to those who built on the Right of Way, in order for  the project
of re-conducting to be successful. The Transmission Company boss said, the project is expected to
be completed within the space of six months but they expected the
contractor to do earlier than that adding that “we expected them to speed
up on the project in order to face other projects.  Reacting to a media report on the conflict between the
Transmission company and the Discos, he said, the discos that are not doing
well are the ones busy sending provocative messages around. He added that the company has the capacity to fund projects
across the country and currently planning to install a 330kva at Lekki free
trade zone as soon as the issue of where to place it is sorted out. Muhammed stressed that the contract cost the company a whopping
sum of N150million and also applauded the Lagos government for their support in
the sector in ensuring every house is light up, saying when the problem in
Lagos solved than others will be minor. The Chairman, Ikeja Electric, Mr Kola Adesina in his remark
said,  the purpose of light is to light up the homes of citizens and
when this is not achieved then the light is meaningless. Adeshina
 said an ordinary Nigeria is not interested in megawatt, substations, 
conductors or feeders, the only thing they are interested
in is to press the switch and they find the light. He reiterated that anything that will lead to the
availability and stability of power is principally all that Nigerians are
keenly interested in seeing and nothing more. “And for this to happen, stakeholders that can deliver
electricity should work together in harmony with a common vision, plans and
objectives that can deliver stable power to the citizens of Nigeria” he
stated.  

Adesina urged the contractor to speed up the project and
deliver in due time, as their customers who are within the axis, through which the
lines runs, should not suffer, as the power within the community will be obstructed
during the period of the project. “Whatever plan or program that is put in place, the
customers we have in Ayobo, Ogba and Alausa  must not suffer because they
do not understand the pain the Transmission is going through, we just want to
put perpetual smiles on their faces”, he emphasised.  The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Energy, Mr Hameed Mustapha stressed that all hands are on deck in order to
ensure that all issues surrounding the right of way are resolved in due time, he
added that “we will like to partner with you because as you know land is
very scarce in Lagos state. 

He revealed that Alimosho is the largest local government in
Lagos and Ikeja are critical,  so they looking at ensuring entrepreneurs
and other sectors reduce the cost they spend on energy and that is the reason the
reconducting exercise is very important to the state. “Whatever we can do to minimise the delays we will do and
you can count on the support of the Ministry of power of Lagos state” he
stated.