Air France, KLM, Delta and Virgin Atlantic have launched their expanded joint venture offering a greater choice of routes and loyalty options when travelling between Europe, the U.K. and North America. The new partnership provides customers with more convenient flight schedules and a shared goal of ensuring a smooth and consistent travel experience, whichever airline people fly. Africa looks up to Nigeria for national airline, ex Ethiopian airlines GCEO The partnership also provides the flexibility to book flights on any of the four carriers through their respective mobile apps, websites, or via travel agents. Customers will enjoy award-winning service, top-tier premium cabin products and complimentary food, drink and seat-back in-flight entertainment in all cabins on all trans-Atlantic flightsEnhanced customer benefits starting from 13 February mean that loyalty programme members will be able to earn and use miles or enjoy elite benefits for flights on any of the four airlines’ worldwide operations, including a trans-Atlantic trip, intra-Europe hops, or domestic U.S. journey, offering more opportunities to quickly move through loyalty tiers and reach a higher status. Eligible Elite loyalty programme members can also enjoy priority boarding and relax in over 100 airport lounges when travelling internationally. Up to 341 peak daily trans-Atlantic services, covering the top
10 routes on a nonstop basis Onward connections to 238 cities in North America, 98 in
continental Europe and 16 in the UK a choice of 110 nonstop trans-Atlantic routes. The enhanced network is also fully available to cargo
customers and is built around the carriers’ hubs in Amsterdam, Atlanta, Boston,
Detroit, London Heathrow, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York-JFK, Paris,
Seattle and Salt Lake City. It creates convenient nonstop or one-stop
connections to every corner of North America, Europe and the U.K. Virgin Atlantic CEO Shai Weiss said: “Customers are at the
heart of this expanded joint venture with our partners Delta, Air France and
KLM, where seamless connections, a greater range of flights, unrivalled
customer service and increased frequent flyer benefits will reinforce its
position as the choice passengers most love to fly. One of the pillars of our
strategy is successfully collaborating with our partners. Combining our
strengths, our network, and our people allows us to achieve more
together.” The customer benefits effective this month are just the start,
with more initiatives being rolled out later this year such as the launch of
more codeshare routes, aligning schedules to reduce connection times and
smoothing the airport experience from check-in to baggage claim. Customers will
also soon be able to check-in and select their seat through any of the partners
airline mobile apps or websites. Delta
 CEO Ed Bastian commented: “Our expanded partnership is a major step 
forward for all of our airlines as we deliver greater reliability,
top travel benefits and leading service that our customers deserve. 
Today’s the launch brings our historic, longstanding collaboration to a 
new level as we
continue to build the partnership of choice across Europe and North 
America
that sets us apart from the rest of the industry.”