The Nigerian Police has said that a Police helicopter, which provided aerial and intelligence cover for the ground troops came under attack when Special Operatives of Operation Puff Adder of the Nigeria Police backed by the Special Forces of the Police Airwing, was hit during a battle with the largest operational camps of the Ansaru Terror Group (also housing other bandits and kidnappers) located in Kuduru Forest, Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State. The came as over 250 terrorists and bandits were killed  on Wednesday the invasion of Ansaru Terrorist Camp in Kaduna State The Police in a statement by  DCP Frank Mba  said the Police helicopter came under attack from the bandits  who used sophisticated anti-aircraft rifles and GPMG but the pilot and the co-pilot demonstrated uncommon courage and expertise, hence they landed the aircraft at the Air Force Base, Kaduna  successfully He said: ”Special Operatives of Operation Puff Adder of the Nigeria Police backed by the Special Forces of the Police Airwing, in a daring offensive operation, stormed one of the largest operational camps of the Ansaru Terror Group (also housing other bandits and kidnappers) located in Kuduru Forest, Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State and successfully neutralized over 250 high-profile members of the Ansaru Terror Group. Shege-Ka-Fasa: Northern Nigeria Security Outfit Launched ”The operation which commenced in the early hours of Wednesday, was carried out by a combined team of operatives of Operation Puff Adder made up of the Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Forces, Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Special Tactical Squad (STS) and Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The operation was necessitated by actionable intelligence linking terror and criminal elements in the super camp to series of terror-related violence, kidnappings, gun-running, cattle rustling and other heinous crimes across the country. ”Unfortunately, during the operation, a Police Bell helicopter, which provided aerial and intelligence cover for the ground troops came under attack from the bandits using sophisticated anti-aircraft rifles and GPMG. Commendably, the pilot and the co-pilot who demonstrated uncommon courage and expertise, successfully landed the aircraft at the Air Force Base, Kaduna without further incident. ”They were thereafter evacuated for medical treatment. Both officers who sustained non-life threatening injuries are currently receiving treatment and are in stable condition. ”The Police helicopter has since been flown out of the Kaduna Air Force Base by Police Pilots en-route to Abuja. Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police assures citizens of safety and sustained intelligence-led operations against bandits across the length and breadth of the nation. He has equally applauded the unparalleled bravery, commitment and dedication of the Police operatives currently conducting the special mission.  