Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The Minister of State for Works and Housing, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu, has called on Dantata & Sawoe, the Contractor handling rehabilitation work on Kano-Shuwarin section of Kano- Maiduguri Road Project, to speed up work as the time frame for the delivery of the project must be met. According to a statement issued to Journalists, Aliyu gave the charge over the weekend while on inspection visit of the road to assess the progress of the ongoing work. “I was here last December to see the level of work and I am back here today in February to see the progress you made” he said.   The minister stated that he was very concerned for the road to be delivered in time due to the accidents being recorded on the road as a result of the bad situation between Wudil and Gaya. Engr Aliyu who showed disappointment with the level of work by the contractors in two months from his last visit in December, urged the contractor to double up effort to meet the target Accordingly, he told the contractor to confront the rehabilitation work from both Wudil and Gaya sides in order to finish on time, urging them to bring more machineries and additional staff on site . Reiterating the commitment of President Buhari to deliver good roads infrastructure for Nigerians, Aliyu said. “We cannot always sit behind in our offices in Abuja, expecting results without us coming out to have first-hand information on the situation of the roads, that’s why we are always going out for supervision” “Just in recent weeks, my senior colleague Minister Babatunde Fashola, was in Edo and Niger states on roads inspection. I was in Numan, Adamawa state yesterday, and now here in Kano state. We divided ourselves to ensure things are going in order” he said   In response, the contractor promised to mobilise additional machines and staff to the site in the next two weeks as requested. He further added that they will concentrate on the dangerous areas of the road in order to reduce the rate of accidents, and later come to complete the work on the bridge