Lagos – The Lagos State Government has directed the management of Lagos Bus Services Limited (LBSL) to deploy a fleet of 65 buses to join some major routes as from Monday to ease commuters’ pain. The Public Affairs Officer of the LBSL, Mr Afolabi Olawale, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Lagos. Olawale said that the step was part of the ways of providing succor and ameliorating the hardship that the commuting public might be facing as a result of the restriction order on the operators of motor cycles and tricycles in some parts of the State. He stated that the new routes and the fares where the LBSL would be extending its services to as from Monday included- 1. Ikeja – Ogba:  N100 2. Berger – Ogba: N100 3. Ikeja – CMS:  N200 4. Oshodi – Ajah: N500 5. Obalende – Ajah: N250 6. CMS – Ajah: N250 7. Inner Marina – Ajah: N250 Don’t give B’Haram attacks tribal, religious colouration, APC charges Nigerians “Arrangements had been perfected for the smooth operations of these buses in the seven new routes,” Olawale said. The spokesman quoted Mr Idowu Oguntona, the LBSL’s Managing Director, as saying that the extension of the services would help reduce the vacuum that might have been created by the ban. “Commuting along the new routes will afford commuters experience the pleasurable and comfort ride services provided by the company. “More buses are expected to be added to the fleets of the company in no distant time,” Oguntona was quoted as saying. Lagos State Government on Jan. 26 announced that it would commence enforcement of the extant Transport Sector Reform Law 2018 from Feb. 1. The law banned the operation of motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke) in some local government areas and local council development areas. The state government also listed highways, bridges and roads where it banned motorcycles and tricycles from operating in the state. The government of Lagos State praised motorcycle and tricycle operators for complying with the restriction from six local government areas, major highways and bridges. The enforcement of the State Security Council’s order began on Saturday, February 1, 2020. The
level of compliance was over 90 %. In fact, some of the ride hailing companies
directed their riders to obey the directive. This is commendable. The high
level of compliance has shown that Lagosians agree with the government on the
need to stop the danger that commercial motorcycles and tricycles have become –
a big threat to safety of lives and security of our people. They should stand
firm in supporting the government. The
little discomfort experienced  by commuters on some routes due to the
absence of motorcycles and tricycles is noted. This will not last as alternatives
are being rolled out. A fleet of 65 buses will join the others on some major routes as from Monday , February 3, 2020: No less than 550 more buses are being expected. Besides, 14 ferries will be commissioned on Tuesday. This will further open up the waterways, reduce travel time on various routes and provide safe, dependable and comfortable alternatives for commuters. The
government is not unaware that enforcing this directive may lead to some job
losses.   The Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, plans to announce some
measures to tackle the  likely effects of the order, besides the
programmes of various agencies, such as the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund
(LSETF), Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Office of Civic Engagement,
Lagos State Parks and Gardens and others. The
government hereby warns all those who are planning to unleash violence on the
state because of the ongoing enforcement to have a change of heart. Lagosians
are peace loving and law abiding people, who will not embrace any disruption of
their legal activities by failed politicians hiding under the evil of
unwholesome activism. The law enforcement agents have been directed to ensure that
nobody takes the law into his hands. The government places a very high
premium on law and order in the interest of all Lagosians.  It
will not fail to act when peace is threatened.