…kicks off success showcase for 2020 Forever Living
Products Nigeria has recognised and decorated its independent Forever Business
Owners who have attained varying levels of achieve in their businesses, this is
even as the company flagged off the first Success Showcase for 2020. The show, which held recently at the National Arts Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos is one in the yearly events series in which the Forever Business Owners (FBOs) across the geo-political zones of the country emptied themselves into the bowels of the centrepiece of arts and culture in Nigeria. Group condemns media trial of Sen. Theodore Orji The Forever
Nigeria family laid a grandeur exposition in epic celebration as only they know
how. The event was awe-inspiring as the elegant Mrs. Oma Attah, wife of MD
Nigeria LNG, Mr. Tony Attah, declared at the event, her earlier vow to conduct
her Forever business so successfully that her children and grand-children would
benefit. “I want to
create a dynasty of Omas. There will be Oma I, Oma II, Oma III, in this business.
My grandchildren will testify that this business was founded for us by our
grandma, the original Oma (Attah)”, she said, and the audience cheered. It was an
afternoon of love and fun. Take the Port Harcourt crowd, you can’t miss them,
happy people from the Garden City with designer wears that could set a fashion
statement in Nigeria for 2020. They came alive
when their own, the delectable Ukamaka Nsugbe, came on stage and urged
Nigerians to be cautious of what they take into their system. She said
Coronavirus, the Wahun, China, epidemic that had claimed over 700 lives, with
an American and a Japanese in tow, was a pointer that decisions we make in life
affect more than just us. Naturally,
everyone in Forever has a story to tell. Ukamaka said when she joined Forever
in 2007, she had three challenges and all were effectively resolved a few
months later. She said it was unacceptable conduct to market Forever products
as medicine, rather than as supplements. “They are
products that provide strongholds against toxins and other infections in the
body”, she said, advising FBOs to use the products for their own health and
well-being too, and advising ulcer patients to use Forever Aloe Gel. “Ulcer is wound
in the stomach, with Forever Gel, the wound start to close up”, she said. Also there were
talks. Take the case of Mrs. Yewande Adekoya, who left her banking career in
November 2017. She said she came to Forever to make money, but ended up being
pregnant and having a baby, enhanced by the use of Forever Living products, and
the Abuja-based Mrs. Serah Idemudia, who relocated from Abuja to Ikorodu with her
husband and refused to work. She was later invited to a Forever event where she
listened and joined. “I became an FLP
Manager in three months, earning a monthly bonus of over N200,000 at that time.
I am in”, she vowed. Earlier in the
show, the Country Manager, Mr. Daniel Ikechukwu, had inaugurated a 12-man
Executive Committee for 2020, charged with the responsibility that all company
policy and plans for the country trickle down to all Forever Business Owners
(FBOs) in Nigeria. The criteria for
the selection, he said, was the inclusion of the top performing five FBOs in
the country and the top business owners in the regions. Those who made the list
are: Dr. Clement Idigo, Justina & John Ekperigin, Kikelomo Apeji, Oma &
Tony Attah and Tope & Taiwo Akinola. The representatives of the regions
are: Ukamaka Nsugbe, Uzoma Ebele Otaraku, for the South-South/South-East, Mrs.
Janet Faruk Danjuma and Hajia Hadiza Abubakar Alli for the North, Owolabi Moses
and Fehintola Onagoruwa for the South West. Ikechukwu, like
an army general, rallying his troops, had earlier meticulously solicited
dedication and attention from Forever Business Owners as they go further in the
year, to represent themselves properly and the company. At the end, with
the audience coming from around the country, blaring vuvuzela flutes, the
atmosphere at the National Theatre was carnival-like. Many said they would want
a repeat, soon.