What can be
called a fundamental change has been instituted in the Lagos State Civil
Service. Henceforth, elevation of any person to the position of Permanent
Secretary will now be based on examination and rigorous interviews, Governor
Babajide Sanwo-Olu declared on Wednesday. Besides,
the Governor said the regular promotion of civil servants from one level to
another would be based “strongly” on performance – a move disrupting the grade
level model being used by the Civil Service. Sanwo-Olu
introduced the new rules at the launch of knowledge-sharing platform tagged: “A
Disruptive S.H.i.F.T” at Adeyemi Bero Auditorium in the Secretariat, Alausa.
The event, organised by the Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions,
was created with an objective to harness the creativity and innovativeness of
civil servants to transform the State’s public service into a 21st century
workforce. S.H.i.F.T
is an acronym for Simple, High-Impact, interactive, Focused,
Transformational. According to the Governor, the reward system in the Lagos public service must be performance-based, saying the scheme would bring back the culture of commitment to work. 1bn barrel of crude oil discovered in Northeast – Sylva He said: “From
today on, I assure you that our public service will be performance based. For
anyone to be appointed as a Permanent Secretary, such person will have to sit
for an examination and pass through interview process. If we use the Permanent
Secretary as a testimony, everyone will know that it is performance based, and
not based on connection. It was something we started years ago and I think we
have to go back to it.” Sanwo-Olu
urged civil servants to demonstrate high level commitment in their various areas
of duty and be mentors to their colleagues in the lower cadre of service. The
Governor said the innovative programme brought an opportunity for those in the
employment of the State to learn, unlearn and relearn for improved service
delivery. For developing
a user-friendly mobile application named “Alausa sabi” to aid seamless
communication and efficiency of the entire Lagos Government workforce, Seun
Ogunmolu, a Level 8 officer in the Ministry of Budget and Planning, got a
reward of double promotion to Level 10 from Governor Sanwo-Olu, who was visibly
thrilled by the wizardry of the young civil servant. The
Governor was also thrilled by presentation of a Level 15 officer, Mrs Temitope
George, who raised the need by the civil servant to shift their mindsets to a
more productive and innovative engagement, which, she said, must be anchored on
respect. Sanwo-Olu
said: “We believe the future is with the young people. If you check the
demography of Lagos, the youth are the future. So, we are going to use Seun as
an example to demonstrate that there is hope for the youth. “Seun is a
Level 8 officer, who, for the past three and half years, is due for promotion
to Level 9. But, for this high-level performance he displayed, he will be
earning a double promotion to Level 10.” The
Governor commended the two speakers at the event, Mrs George and Ogunmolu for leading
innovation in their respective areas of duty, disclosing that the both would be
nominated for National Productivity Award. He assured
that his administration would continue to reward personnel that demonstrated
high-level commitment and performance in the discharge of their duties. Commissioner
for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle, said the S.H.i.F.T.
initiative was about changing the way “we think, behave and do things.” She said:
“The objectives of the S.H.i.F.T programme is to share innovation and creative
ideas that will move the State public service into the 21st century workforce.
It seeks to connect knowledgeable resource persons within and outside the State
public service to the generality of the public servants. “It will
bring together people with different perspectives so they can understand each
other better and to empower everyone to share their knowledge for the benefit
of the rest of the State public service. “The
platform will facilitate employee communication and engagements. It will keep
public servants abreast of modern trends in identified subject areas and serves
as a means of public communication.”