Nigeria’s first love reality TV show, ‘Ultimate Love’ kicked off last Sunday, February 9, 2020, and Daily Times Life & Style Correspondent MUTIAT ALLI had a tour of the ‘Love Residence.’ For the first time in Nigeria, a show which is centered on finding love will definitely make you keep glued to your TV screen. ‘Ultimate Love’ will see 16 housemates consisting of single men and women living together in the ‘Love Residence’ for eight weeks. These guys are expected to find love during the show’s run. Daily Times correspondent was given a tour of the ‘Love Residence’ 48 hours before the show’s premiere to get a first-hand feel of what it is to be a resident at the beautifully furnished house put together by Multichoice Nigeria, owners of DSTV & Gotv. First of all, we got to visit the team behind the magic that Nigerians and the rest of Africa see on TV. We met the technical crew to see the guys manning the sound, audio and practically everything needed to make the show a success story as all necessary equipment were obviously state-of-the-art, 4K cameras with fiber optic transmission to give viewers the best transmission live. Then we moved to the beautifully decorated ‘Love Residence’ where the love guests will be spending the next eight weeks trying to move that status from ‘single, ready to mingle to definitely walking down the aisle. The all new house was luxuriously decorated, with mood lights, paintings, artworks and graffiti to set the mood for the show. There was also a chatroom, a ‘therapy’ room (To be used by Auntie when guiding the couples), and an open glass booth which we were told would be used by the guests to confer with their chosen relatives, exes, etc. Definitely, more would be revealed during the course of the show. The Ultimate Love reality show, in its first season, will see love guests paired as couples and would compete for the ultimate prize of N5 million, a sponsored traditional wedding and a house which would be presented to them a year after they have successfully lived together as a married couple. READ ALSO: Victor Olaiya remains a living legend even after death — Music promoter It is however important to note that terms to be used differs from all other reality show packaged by MultiChoice; when housemates come into house, they Check-in and when it’s time to leave, they Check-out. Also unlike Big Brother, there is Biggie; here it’s an ‘Aunty Figure who is visible to the love guests. Thumbs up to the organisers of the ‘Ultimate Love’ for a well-detailed and family-oriented decoration given to the residence and be sure viewers will be melted by the several surprises that the show will unfold weekly.