United States Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA) and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority ( NCAA) licensed Flight  Dispatcher and Ground Instructor, Mrs Victoria Jumoke Adegbe has advised sick passengers to abstain from travelling to save their lives from the ravaging spread of Corona virus. She said sick passengers manifesting symptoms of other infections were more susceptible to contract Coronavoris through the air travel mode compared to other modes of transportation because of  cabin pressurization associated with air travel. Asian elephants, jaguars, sharks to get more protection Adegbe said the
travel advisory to sick persons became imperative because of the peculiarity of
air travel as the fastest mode of transport likely to serve as an avenue for
the fastest spread of coronavirus disease. She said as a
ground pilot, the air transport industry needed to curtail the spread of corona
virus by insisting that passengers adhere to preventive measures including
personal hygiene and the use of sanitizes. Adegbe said
urgent steps needed to be taken to curtail the spread of Coronavirus, which
has killed many people in six weeks. She said:”
Since Thomas Selfridge, the first man to die in a plane crash September 17,
1908 till February 2020 over 112 years, the total number of air crash victims
is less than 60,000 persons which is a number that still makes my heart weep
being a Ground Pilot. 

“The Coronavirus
on the other hand, has infected over 60,000 persons in just six weeks into 2020. “As at January
2020 30,  World Health Organization (WHO)
declared the coronavirus a global public health emergency. “Air travel
being the fastest means of travelling from region to region can also be the
fastest means by which the coronavirus is spread fastest. When a similar
plaque called the black death swept into Europe from Asia in 1347, in just  five years, over 200 million people lost
their lives. “The import is
that it took five years to destroy over 200 million people when there were no
air travels, trains, or engine powered cars! Now imagine the speed of transmission
with our technological advancement. “I went on a
research to see the categories of personal 
hygiene people  infected and
discovered that over 75 per cent  of
those infected already had a prior disease such as diabetes, pneumonia and high
blood pressure. “You shouldn’t
fly if you’re sick. Go to a hospital first and get treated”, she said.