Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has instructed all members of his cabinet to embark on a compulsory test after contracting Coronavirus on Tuesday. Akeredolu also explained that all his political aides who might have had contacts with him during their cause of engagement should immediately go and check status. He gave the directive through the State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Donald Ojogo, in a statement issued in Akure, the state capital. The directive has continued to cause anxiety mostly among the State Commissioners in the Akeredolu’s government. The governor had earlier in a tweet confirmed contracting the virus after undergoing test. He added that he had showed symptoms of malaria which he treated but was later advised to go on self isolation. The statement read: “As you all know, the result has come out positive even as Mr. Governor (Akeredolu) waited no time in disclosing his status. “Flowing from the above, Mr. Governor has resolved to self-isolate in line with accepted global standards in respect of COVID-19 protocols. “This becomes necessary in order to ensure a proper determination and direction of focus. “Accordingly, there is nothing to fear; and no component of Government business will be adversely affected within the period of the Governor’s self-isolation. “In the meantime, Governor Akeredolu has directed all members of the Cabinet, close aides and others who have had reasons for constant contacts with him to undergo compulsory tests”. The latest development came barely a week that the governor was seen in viral video flouting the social distancing guidelines during his visit to Abuja. Akeredolu was seen in the group video with members of the State House of Assembly in deviance and total disregard to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines in curtailing the COVID19. Meanwhile, some group of youths have also taken to the social media to put pressure on the members of the State House of Assembly to undergo a test and make it public. They raised fears that since the Assembly members were in Abuja with the governor, their health status also need to be questioned.