Sixteen secondary school students who came tops in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, UTME, conducted by the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board JAMB, have bagged scholarship awards from the Nigeria Society of Engineer, NSE. The 16 students are to enjoy a 5-year scholarship after gaining admission into the university. The award was instituted to reward secondary school engineering students who emerged as best candidates in UTME. In his address of welcome at the unveiling  of the NSE 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, UTME, Best brains in Engineer during a virtual event, the NSE President, Engr. Babagana Mohammed said the key thrust of this initiative is to show that NSE is at the vanguard of the drive to create the talents and workforce that will transform the nation. “We must necessarily “light up tomorrow today “. If we fail to take affirmative actions to support, inspire, promote and indeed remove the barriers to knowledge and skill-driven society, we wouldn’t consider ourselves successful. We must , therefore, intervene when and where we should. This serves as a positive example of what needs to be done by a highly regarded and well-respected a society like ours.” Engr. Mohammed stressed that with more of these direct collaborative, non -governmental, motivated interventions and schemes,  the foundation would be laid for a tech savvy generation that would be capable of competing with, and besting their peers from other parts of the globe. “In addition, this would guarantee the future of this nation from a technical talent pool perspective. Suffice it to say, that with similar initiatives by others “when I look at the future, it is so bright it burns my eyes”. On the other hand, if we fail to do what we need to, and saddle the government with all the responsibilities, we will be playing the ostrich.” The NSE President urged all to see it as their duty and sacred responsibility to position the Engineering profession and future workforce to be in a position to play a critical role in our evolving Society where technical skills and creativity will be highly sought after. He added, “The seeds for Nigerian and indeed African technological transformation and breakthrough need to be planted and nurtured today. “Science can amuse and fascinate us all, but it is Engineering that changes the World”. The Engineer has been, and is, a maker of history. Scientist study the World as it is, Engineers create the World that has never been. The way to succeed is to double our failure rate.”