Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike has described speculations about his alleged planned defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the talk of jobless and idle people, who have nothing better to do than engage in idle talks. Wike wondered what his motive will be to join the APC after going through what he went through for his second term, asking, “What else will I need to join APC for, is it to get a ticket for a third term or to get a presidential ticket?” Wike a well known critic of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, is a leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), where he was elected into office as the governor of Rivers State for the second term in 2019. However, the governor recently sponsored an advertorial in national newspapers, wherein he appreciated President Buhari for approving the repayment of N78.9billion as funds spent by Rivers State on federal roads. In the open letter of appreciation, Wike also appealed to Buhari to visit the state so as to see the projects being executed by his administration. The publications, has raised speculations that Wike may be romancing the President as part of plans to join the APC. But, while featuring on an AIT live programme on Wednesday morning, Wike debunked all the rumours, describing them as lies being peddled by people who love to play bad politics, asking for what purpose he would be joining the APC when he was already on his second term as the governor of Rivers State. “You know what I went through to win my second term. What else will I need to join APC for, is it to get a ticket for a third term or to get a presidential ticket?” “You know when people don’t have anything to do, they go on social media to say all sorts of things,” he said. Wike noted that when other states received the fund for federal roads they constructed in 2018, Rivers was not included. He recalled how he complained to the President, the late Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari and the Minister of Works, Babatunde Raji Fashola. He said now that the fund had been approved, he and his state executive council decided to appreciate the President and other members of his cabinet, saying the main letter had been sent to Buhari three weeks ago before the advertorial. The governor said people should learn to appreciate, saying his letter to Buhari was a mere appreciation with no intention to romance him or to join the APC.