*Foil 28 robbery operations The Lagos state Police Command has arrested 41 armed robbery suspects and successfully foiled 28 robbery attempts within one month. The command also killed one robbery suspect during an exchange of gunfire while 195 suspects were arrested for cultism. According to the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, four suspects were also arrested for kidnapping while 52 others were nabbed for murder. Odumosu while briefing journalists on Wednesday said the state also recorded six cases of suicide and prevented four suicide attempts during the same period. The state police boss disclosed that nine suspected fraudsters also known as ‘wash-wash’ who specialize in swindling people using fake US dollars were arrested. He said that a black box which is used to deceive victims as well as the gang’s operational vehicles were recovered. “Within the last one month, the command arrested 41 armed robbery suspects and successfully foiled 28 armed robbery attempts. One armed robbery suspect died during exchange of fire with the police. 195 suspects were arrested for cultism. 4 suspects were arrested for kidnapping and 52 suspects were arrested for murder. “The state recorded six cases of suicide and prevented four suicide attempts. 19 assorted firearms with lots of ammunition of different calibre, along with cutlasses, axes, other dangerous weapons and criminal charms were recovered. The command also recovered six stolen vehicles. “Nine suspected fraudsters that specialize in duping people with fake US currencies (wash-wash) were arrested with their so called black boxes and operational vehicles. “In sustaining the war against rapists, the command has in the last one month arrested 30 suspects for rape and defilement. 23 suspects were arrested for domestic violence and two suspects for child abuse. “On COVID-19 enforcement, the command has successfully arrested 3,375 violators. Out of the number 2,600 were arrested for violating curfew, 208 arrested for not wearing face masks, 90 arrested for not maintaining social distance and 477 arrested for inter-states travel. “1,506 vehicles were impounded, which include 210 vehicles intercepted for interstates travel. 1,858 motorcycles and 156 tricycles were also impounded,” Odumosu stated.