Police say the post-mortem of four-year-old Brisbane girl Willow Dunn revealed she had suffered “sustained mistreatment”. They are investigating whether Willow, who had Down syndrome, lived much of her four short years in neglect. “The post-mortem examination … revealed that at the time of her death Willow Dunn was experiencing serious malnourishment and many other health concerns that indicated sustained mistreatment, ” Detective Inspector Chris Knight said. He said the investigation would focus on the role that family members played in “all aspects” of her life. “We’re interested in the family dynamics of Willow Dunn and her family,” Det. Insp. Knight said. “A major focal point is the carer responsibilities. “We are looking at the ongoing care and anyone who had a legal responsibility to care for Willow. “Willow’s father Mark James Dunn, 43, was charged with her murder on Monday night after police were called to their Cannon Hill home that morning. When officers arrived they allegedly found the dead toddler face down in her cot. It is alleged she was there for several days and showed signs of malnourishment, neglect and had sores on her body. According to court documents, police will allege the girl died on or about May 23 — two days before her body was found. Mr Dunn has been detained in custody and will return to court on July 20. Mark James Dunn, 43, is accused of murdering his daughter, Willow, and has been remanded in custody. Det. Insp. Knight said police officers and paramedics who attended the scene were confronted by a “traumatic” scene. “It’s a scene that will stay with them for many years,” he said. “It’s a shocking set of circumstances.” Det. Insp. Knight made a public appeal for information from anyone who had interacted with Willow’s family. It comes as the state’s child safety minister Di Farmer announced an official investigation to determine if the child safety system failed the girl. It is understood the two teenagers and Willow were known to the Department of Child Safety. READ ALSO Kylie Jenner to face criminal investigation after faking billionaire status  There are mounting questions from the state opposition about DOCS’ involvement and what more could have been done in both cases. 