The National Youth  Service Corps, (NYSC) has taken its sensitisation campaign on COVID-19  to major markets in Asaba, the Delta state capital to create awareness  on the novel coronavirus to traders on the  need to stay safe. NYSC state 
Coordinator, Mrs. Olutayo Samuel mobilized corps members and other 
officials to the markets where they shared fliers to traders, and 
buyers, explaining various precautionary measures and what
 to do to stay safe from coronavirus pandemic. Speaking to newsmen 
on Monday in Asaba, the coordinator said it has become imperative to 
carry out the sensitization in view of the rumour making the rounds that
 there was nothing like COVID-19, but pure
 politics. She eulogized the 
NYSC Director- General, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim for his sterling 
leadership qualities, stating that he had since the index case of 
COVID-19 in Nigeria, approved for all state NYSC secretariats
 to vigorously engage in sensitization, including the producing and 
distributing personal protective equipment to their host states and 
communities. Mrs. Samuel said some
 traders still believe that coronavirus pandemic is for the rich and as 
such have refused to protect themselves. She therefore, warned
 against pessimism and being refusal to observing approved precautionary
 measures, maintaining that such could endanger them and the society at 
large. Her words: “You must 
take your life in your hands and actions. Nobody can protect you more 
than you can protect yourselves. If the government’s face masks have not
 gotten to you, spare N100 or N200 to buy
 one for yourself. “It’s for your own 
good and the good of humanity that you stay safe and stay alive. 
COVID-19 is real, don’t let anybody deceive you. “That’s why the corps
 members are making this sacrifice to sensitize you in addition to the 
face masks and hand sanitizers they had initially produced, and 
distributed to the state government and the public. “If we all observe 
necessary safety guides to stay alive, we will all win this war against 
the novel coronavirus. God bless you as you adhere strictly to these 
instructions,” she advised. The market was agog 
when the corps members staged a musical drama, depicting various 
precautionary measures as part of their sensitization message. The outing also 
provided ample opportunity for people to wash their hands and use hand 
sanitizers, while traders that taught their colleagues how to observe 
these precautions were given free face masks
 by the corps members.