Governor  Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state has said that  “There is no doubt that Kano is in trouble he started the   coronavirus (COVID-19)  pandemic on a shaky foundation. The governor made this known on Sunday when Aliko Dangote Foundation donated a mobile molecular laboratory for the testing of coronavirus (COVID-19) to the Kano State Government. Ganduje said, “There is no doubt that Kano is in trouble. And there is no doubt that we started on a shaky foundation. When samples were taken to Abuja for 7 hours and came back again in 7 hours, that was the shaky foundation I am talking about. “We then lodged our complaint to President Muhammadu Buhari, who ordered for the establishment of a Testing Centre at Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, which after take-off was shut down for some days if not weeks. That was what escalated the transmission of the disease up to community transmission. Man Hits his new born baby on the floor because it’s not a boy “But with the coming back of the AKTH Testing Centre and the addition of Bayero University, Kano that has the capacity of testing about 200 samples per day now, with the coming of Dangote Mobile Testing Centre of 400 samples capacity, we are making headway in facing the crisis squarely.” Also present at the event, the Director-General of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, was quoted to have said, “I just want the people of Kano to understand that we have not left you. We are behind you hundred per cent. “I want to assure you that, by the time we hear from the findings of Dr Nasiru Sani Gwarzo’s team from the Presidential Task Force, for the days they have been here, we will have more solutions that we will use in solving the problems from Kano.” This came as the Kano Leadership for Advocacy and Development (Kano LEADS), an NGO, has urged Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state to recruit more medical personnel and recall retirees to help curtail the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Convener of the group, Aishatu Dankani, while briefing newsmen on Monday in Abuja, decried total failure of healthcare system in Kano. She also enjoined Ganduje to declare a state of emergency in the health care sector in Kano to create avenue towards addressing the COVID-19 pandemic. Dankani, who expressed concern over increasing health challenges in the state, advised Ganduje to provide additional medicament, laboratory reagents and Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs) to health facilities in the state. According to her, the level of technical capacity and availability of PPEs is not in any way adequate as per minimal requirements for attending to such pandemic. She also stressed the need for the Kano Government and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to thoroughly investigate the causes of the sudden increase in number of deaths, especially among the elderly in Kano. Dankani called on government to establish substantial number of test and screening centre in Kano, with at least one sample collection centre in each of the 44 Local Government and one in each border town. “We are equally pleading with Nigeria Medical Association, all NGOs and Community-based organisations not to relent in participating as strong team members in this life and death challenge. “We call on Kano government and all its related agencies to exhibit a higher sense of accountability and transparency in the management of resources and work in partnership with the Federal Government team, private individuals and development partners towards addressing covid-19 pandemic.” Dankani used the occasion to enjoin the people of Kano to change their attitude and convert their abnormalities into a new progressive and transformative state. The convener, however, commended the Federal Government for offering tangible technical and material support to the state as evidenced by the high-powered technical team sent to Kano. Dankani also appreciated Alhaji Aliko Dangote for his dedication and untiring commitment to the well-being of Kano citizens in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. “We equally express our sincere appreciation to Alhaji Abdussamad Rabiu for his contribution of ambulance and direct distribution of palliative to low income earners in Kano,” she said. 