3. The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) on Monday, directed all Heads of Courts to abide by previous circulars shutting down courts to hear only urgent, essential and time-bound matters. He said this will be pending the outcome of a committee
set up to come up with recommendations on how to leverage on technology and
hold the business of courts even during the COVID-19 period. The circular dated May 4, with Ref. No.
NJC/CIR/HOC/II/658 May, 2020, was issued to all Heads of court in the Federal
and State Judiciaries. It is titled: Re: Implementation Guidelines For The
Cobtainment of COVID-19 Issued by The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 “This Circular is imperative following the Guidelines
issued by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for the phased easing of the
lockdown. “And having regard to the fact that the National Judicial
Council, as Your Lordships are aware, had constituted a Committee to,
inter-alia, come up with urgent practical strategic measures to be instituted
in order to ensure that Courts continue to function despite the lockdown and
the COVID-19 Challenges. “These measures are expected to include recommendations
on how the Courts could leverage on Technology to hold virtual sittings or
remote hearings. “In addition, the National Centre for Disease Control had
made an announcement to the effect that we are now at Community transmission
phase of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Furthermore, it is a fact that many of our Judges and
Justices are in the high-risk category in terms of age bracket, resulting in
many having underlying condition that make them more vulnerable to the virulent
manifestation of the disease once infected. “Hence, we cannot afford to put them and their families
at risk by allowing a haphazard resumption of Court without clear Guidelines
and Protocols that will safeguard the health and wellbeing of the Judges,
Lawyers, Court Staff as well as Members of the Public. “It is however observed that some Courts, without
awaiting the outcome of the NJC Committee, have resumed and continued to
conduct proceedings as if normalcy has been restored. ”It is for the aforementioned reasons that all Heads of Courts and Judicial Bodies are directed to continue to abide by the NJC Circular No. NJC/CIR/HOC/II/656, dated April 6, 2020 until the following measures are put in place: Nigerien labour minister death: Buhari commiserates with Issoufou “Guidelines on the use of appropriate Technology on
virtual or remote hearings issued by the NJC; “Strategic measures and Guidance must be provided for
Courts where physical hearings must be held and they must do so sparingly and
in line with appropriate regulations and guidelines issued by the NJC, and the
health protocols approved by the NCDC. “This should cover things like access control, infrared
temperature detector/thermometer, space requirement per person, physical
distancing within the Court premises, protective gears, sanitation and periodic
decontamination of the Courtrooms amongst other measures; “Every Court/Judicial Body Administrator is required to
provide adequate safety equipment like face masks and sanitary stations with
hand washing facilities to the Judges, Justices, Staff and general Court users; “In line with the Guidelines for the phased easing of the
lockdown by the Presidential Task Force, only Staff on the Grade Level 14 and
above shall resume duty. “All Heads of Courts/Judicial Bodies are hereby directed
to bring the content of this Circular to the notice of all Stakeholders in
justice administration, please,” he said.