The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, on Monday said the activities of commercial bus drivers and their conductors are aiding the spread of COVID 19 in the state. Addressing journalists during a press conference at the Commamd Headquaters in Ikeja, Odumosu, said investigation carried out by the command revealed that for fear of  arrest, commercial bus drivers and their conductors now buy face masks which they share to passengers who have none. He said this set of drivers and their conductors,  collect back the face mask from passengers when they are disembarking. This action, he said aid the spread of Coronavirus pandemic, which is racging conutrues of the world. “We urge the leadership of the various unions to educate their members. Anyone arrested involved in this act would not be spared. The driver would be prosecuted along with his conductor, ” he said. While aslo giving a breakdown of the achievements of the command during lockdown, Odumosu said 2,310 violators of lockdown order were arrested. Of the said number, he said 2,185 of them were charged to court and at the end of the trial they were awarded various punishments. He said that the Command also freed 125 suspects, who are mostly under age offenders. Odumosu said: “Our enforcement teams impounded 2,092 vehicles, comprising 800 private vehicles and 1,292 commercial vehicles. We equally impounded 1,535 motorcycles and 369 tricycles. “With the pronouncement of the gradual easing of the lockdown by the Government with effect from Monday, 4th May, 2020, the Command adopted more effective measures and strategies to enforce the curfew imposed from 8.00pm to 6.00am daily as well as the ban on non-essential inter-states movements. “ Our teams were also deployed to ensure that Lagosians obey the guidelines regarding opening and closing time for businesses, workplaces, markets; the use of facemask in public places; number of passengers per commercial vehicle and maintaining social distancing principles. ” Wike declares PDP Youth Leader wanted over alleged criminal activities 