Access Bank Plc rewarded 10 customers with N1million each and 28 female customers with N100,000 each in its DiamondXtra monthly draw. Leading retail
bank in Nigeria, Access Bank Plc has rewarded 10 customers with N1million each
and 28 female customers with N100,000 each in its DiamondXtra monthly draw held
yesterday at the bank’s Head Office in Lagos. Speaking at the
live draw, Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank Plc, Victor Etuokwu
said the DiamondXtra initiative is the bank’s little way of creating value and
meeting the needs of its customers during these trying times. “We understand
what our customers are going through this period, and the bank is committed to
providing them with a world-class banking experience via our digital platforms
whilst rewarding them for their patronage and savings culture. DiamondXtra is
the best banking product in the country at the moment and I urge Nigerians to
sign up to the most rewarding way to save. Commenting
further, Adaeze Umeh, Group Head, Consumer Products and Propositions, Access
Bank said, In today’s Diamondxtra draw, we have rewarded 10 customers with N1Million
each and 28 female customers with N100,000 each in the Xtra draw. We are
gearing up for the quarterly draw next month where we’ll rewarding more than
1,000 customers with various cash prizes. To be a part of
the reward scheme, all you need to do is to open a DiamondXtra account by
dialling *901*5# and fund the account with N5,000, with an increased chance of
winning for every N5,000 saved. It’s even more exciting than both existing and
new customers are eligible to win, simply by opening & maintaining their
DiamondXtra account,” Adaeze concluded. DiamondXtra is
an interest yielding hybrid account, which allows deposits of both cash and
third party cheques. Hybrid means a combination of both savings and current
account features. The reward
scheme which was launched in 2008 and has been running every year since
inception has rewarded over 5,000 customers in 2019 and over N5billion has
been given away in cash and gift items in the past 11 years.