…Cautions against sharing, recycling of face masks …Asks states to align with their policies with those of FG …Pharmacists kick against importation of Madagascar herbal remedy The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 revealed on Tuesday that the Madagascar herbal remedy for COVID-19 will be subjected to the normal regulatory processes before it will be administered for use in Nigeria. Speaking during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja, its national oordinator, Sani Aliyu, said that any medication coming into the country whether it is herbal cure, concoction or normal drug will be subjected to the normal regulatory processes. He said: “I want to start briefly by talking about the Madagascar cure. As directed by the President, I want to state that any medication coming into the country whether it is herbal cure or concoction or normal drug, it has to be subjected to the normal regulatory process. “The Madagascar cure will be subjected to the normal process we expect within the legal frameworks and guidelines that we have. More importantly, not only to establish its efficacy but for it to be legally registered. “So this drug would go through the normal regulatory process which can be stringent before it can be administered in the country”. Earlier, the PTF Chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation SGF, Mr. Boss Mustapha, cautioned Nigerians against the continued resort to recycling and sharing of face masks in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying such actions would only fuel more infections. Mustapha said that except for fabric masks, every disposable mask that has been used once, becomes a hazardous medical waste. “The PTF has become aware of the on-going practice of sharing masks and picking of masks for recycling from dumpsites. “This places a lot of responsibility on all of us to be self-educated and to educate others. The following points are emphasized: Except for fabric masks, every disposable used mask is ahazardous medical waste and should be disposed of properly, preferably by burning. “It is very risky to share masks as the virus is capable of remaining on surfaces for several hours and you could get infected; “The unhealthy practice of picking up disposed masks for whatever purpose is harmful to both the individual picking it and whoever procures it later. “Particularly, it will be helpful for high-risk people such as the elderly and those with comorbidities, to wear masks or face covering and avoid crowded places”. He equally tasked state governments on the need to align their policies with those at the federal level, reminding them that the virus does not respect boundaries or status. On his part, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said that the ministry has sent a delegation of experts on a fact finding mission on the strange deaths in in Azare, Bauchi State. “A delegation of the FMOH is presently in Bauchi State on a fact-finding mission to work with Bauchi State government and look into reports of unexplained deaths in Azare, Bauchi State. “The similar missions to Katsina and Jigawa identified needs in those States, which include the need for a molecular laboratory in Katsina to reduce the backlog of pending tests and the turn-around time for results. Meanwhile, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has slammed the Federal Government over its decision to import Madagascar herbal concoction, COVID Organics, saying it is ‘distasteful for a country that should be the leader of Africa to go this low.” In a statement signed by the PSN National President, Pharm. Sam Ohuabunwa, the pharmacists said that they are totally appalled that the country would spend scarce foreign exchange to import what they described as “coal into Newcastle’. He said: “Even if we are not going to pay for this, it is thoroughly disgraceful that a country that should be the leader of Africa, with the largest GDP will allow itself to be dragged this low. The PSN president described as unfortunate that since the outbreak of the COVID-19, a number of scientists and many herbal companies have raised their voices that they have herbal and natural products that can be used to treat or manage COVID-19  which the Federal Government failed to review the claims. “We have raised our voices severally that the Federal Government should review these claims and help put them through clinical evaluation as most of these producers cannot afford to conduct clinical trials. “We have recommended that a portion of the nearly 25 Billion Naira donated/allocated for the COVID-19 pandemic should be dedicated for local research and development. But our Government has remained essentially silent only waiting to participate in WHO sponsored or mandated trials. “We have been told that Nigeria is participating in the WHO solidarity trial, but nothing on trying our own inventions and formulations”.