A Pharmacist, Mr Abiodun Ajibade, says winning the fight against COVID-19 can only be achieved by improving on the healthcare industry and welfare of the health workers in the country. Ajibade, Chairman, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) Oyo State Chapter, made this known in a telephone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday. READ ALSO: Italy eases long lockdown, but fears resurgence of coronavirus He noted that the health workers were vulnerable in terms of contracting the disease due to the nature of their jobs. He lamented that many patients by virtue of their maintained privacy, had subjected many quality health workers that were expected to help fight the scourge to undue exposure to COVID -19. According to him, the current trend of health workers getting infected has been decreasing the number of hands that can help to fight the scourge. “Since the first index case of COVID-19 was announced in Nigeria, it has not been an easy task for the Nigerian health workers. “The first assignment before the health workers is how to remain on the frontline. “The number of health workers that had tested positive to coronavirus is on the increase. This is a challenge that must be quickly tackled if our fight against COVID-19 will be a success,” he said. Ajibade urged government at all levels to show quality commitment to the plight of health workers by providing for their protection and enhancing high level motivation for all groups in the frontline fighting the scourge. “As COVID-19 has entered the community transmission phase in Nigeria, many health workers are apprehensive of their fate in the ongoing fight against COVID-19. “The government’s plan to implement hazard allowance for all cadre of health workers, though a good gesture, must be tinkered, so that it achieves its purpose because life is life. “This is not the time to discriminate against any group of health workers as our team work is much more needed than before, if we must safeguard the lives of Nigerians as the last resort,” he said. The pharmacist said that tertiary health institutions should be well supported by the state, corporate organisations and well- meaning Nigerians as they remained the highest point of care. Ajibade also urged government to give attention to health facilities including pharmacies and private hospitals to be able to combat the scourge. “Recent events playing out have shown that many pharmacies and other private health facilities are now at a greater risk of infection due to the patronage of individuals who have been exposed but going around seeking self-help,” he said.