Two military deserters, Kehinde Elijah, and Ezeh Joseph, have been arrested by operatives at the Ilema Hausa Police Division, for the murder of a police sergeant, Onalaja Onajide. Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects attacked and shot the divisional police officer  and the late Onajide, a station Guard at the division on May 10. It was learnt that the suspects had earlier approached the divisional police officer to release a motorcycle impounded by men of the division following the state government’s ban on the use of motorcycles. While the divisional police officer refused, the angry men decided to deal with him for not yielding to their plea. The duo targeted the divisional police officer who was standing outside the division around 10pm on the eventful day, shot at him and also shot at the station guard who tried to defend his boss. Fortunately, the divisional police officer survived the attack, while Onajide died after been rushed to the hospital for treatment. Investigation into the alleged murder led to the arrest of Elijah, who deserted the army in 2015, after he was posted to the north -east to fight the Boko Haram insurgents. Also, Joseph was later arrested and was also found to have deserted the military during basic training. The Lagos state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Elkana Bala, confirmed the arrest of the suspects. Bala said: “Kehinde Elijah was arrested on May 16, by policemen at the Ilemba Hausa Police Division. He is among three suspects on the police wanted list for violent crimes. “Four pairs of military accoutrements were recovered from his house. He claimed to have deserted the military in 2015 when he was deployed to the north- east to fight insurgency. He has been in Ojo area of Lagos since then. “He has been terrorizing members of the public. The second suspect, Ezeh Frank Joseph, was arrested in his apartment at Imude Pako Area, Era Road, Ajangbadi on May 17. “He claimed to have deserted the military while undergoing basic military training. They are arrested in respect of the shooting and killing of police Sergeant, Onalaja Onajide attached to Ilemba Hausa Division. The police spokesman stated that investigation is still ongoing, as the suspects will soon be charged to court.