Due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, which has necessitated controlled movement across various states of the federation, WEMA Bank Plc has decided to remodel the process for its Annual General Meeting (AGM). The bank, in a statement on Monday, said
its AGM would take place on Monday, May 18th 2020 on the 5th Floor of Wema
Towers, Marina, Lagos. But, it will be by proxy. According to the statement, “Wema bank
considers the well-being of its shareholders a key priority and given the
potential risks of attendance, strongly advise against physical attendance. “The decision to hold the AGM by proxy
was made pursuant to regulatory directive and approval. “This was made at the time where the restriction was placed on movement within and across state borders due to the
Federal government’s directive on total lockdown. “However,
in a bid to control the inadvertent spread of the coronavirus, the bank has
decided to go ahead with its initial plan of conducting its AGM by proxy even
after the ease of the lockdown. “Due to the severity of matters to be
discussed at the AGM, the bank has decided that the meeting should not be
postponed to a later date than already scheduled, however, given the
circumstance; the meeting will be kept as short and concise as possible. “Amongst the matters to be discussed are
audited financial statements for the year, authorization of dividend, election
and re-election of directors, and the election of members of the audit
committee. Shareholders are therefore entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and
vote in their stead. “As part of its preparations, the Bank
has sent the process and procedure for selection of proxy and advised company
shareholders to send their duly completed proxy forms to the office of the
Company Secretary via companysecretariat@wemabank.com on or before May  13, 2020. “This decision leverages the leeway made
by the CAC in line with the provision of section 230 of the Companies and
Allied Matters Act (CAMA) on the use of proxies with the understanding that the
quorum for an Annual General Meeting can be achieved either through physical
attendance or by proxy.”