…As Ikosi Isheri LCDA boss celebrates health workers In its continuous effort to complement the work of the Lagos State government in combating the Covid-19 pandemic, the Executive Chairman of Apapa Iganmu Local Council Development Authority, Hon. (Dr). Funmilayo Akande Muhammed is set to distribute 30,000 Face Masks to residents of Apapa Iganmu LCDA in batches as the easing of the lockdown begins in Lagos. READ ALSO:  COVID-19: NEDC donates 2 ambulances, thermometers to Taraba This is in helping the people to keep in line with the Lagos State government directive that all residents of the state must take safety precautions serious by ensuring total compliance to the use of Facemasks. The local government helmswoman decided to embark on the distribution of the free facemasks from Tuesday to ensure total compliance as the state has said that anyone found without the use of facemask shall be arrested and prosecuted. She has therefore urged residents to remain committed to observing necessary precautionary measures to stop the spread of the COVID-19 infection. The chairman according to a release by her Media and Publicity office said that, “It’s pertinent to note that we shall continue to work with our Royal Fathers, baales, CDA/CDC, Landlord Associations, Iya Oloja, Baba Oloja, Representatives of League of Imams, Christian Association of Nigeria, Transport Union among others stakeholders in the Local Council to achieve the desired result. “All residents of Apapa Iganmu LCDA are advised to remain in their respective Wards to get theirs because we’ll not condone anyone coming to the local government secretariat to wait. Residents are also advised to maintain social distancing and always make use of their hands sanitizer as well.” This is just as the chairman of ikosi isheri Local Council Development Authority, Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada, popularely called the MAYORESS has rolled out the drums to celebrate councils’ health workers today. The celebration according to the Chief Press Secretary to the chairman of the council, Mr. Ayo Idowu was done in line with the physical distancing order in place in the state, was done inside the council secretariat. In her speech, Princess Bada, said the health and environmental workers have been at the forefront of the fight against the invisible deadly virus ravaging the world. She stressed that no amount of money would ever be enough to appreciate the health care workers but only to keep praying for them. The deputy chairman of the council, Alhaji Adisa, the council manager, Prince Olujobi and few management staff along with the council executive committee were on ground during the event .