Former Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, on Sunday, distributed food items worth millions of naira to the vulnerable and less privileged persons in his constituency. Chairman of the distribution committee, Aminu Tukur while speaking during the exercise in Bauchi, said the items were meant to ameliorate the hardship been faced by the beneficiaries, most especially at this difficult moment occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic. Tukur, who listed the items to include, 3,200 bags of 10kg rice, 3200 bags of 10kg maize flour, 600 cartons of spaghetti and 100 bags of sugar, noted that Muslims will get 60 per cent of the commodities while 40 per cent will go to the Christian community of the three local governments that make up the federal constituency. He said that the former speaker instructed that the Muslim community in the three local governments be given 60 per cent of the foodstuff while the Christian community is to get 40 per cent. He said in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Ares, the Muslim community got 50 per cent of the items and 30 per cent in Dass Local Government Area, whereas, Muslims in Bogoro were given 15 per cent, adding that the remaining five per cent was allocated to religious leaders within the constituency. The committee chairman said that on the Christian side, 50 per cent of the items was given to Bogoro Local Government Area, 30 per cent in Tafawa Balewa while 20 per cent was given to Dass Local Government Area. According to him, the sugar is meant for Muslims only, who are presently observing the Holy month of Ramadan fast. Tukur, who said that the former speaker is passionate about the well-being of his people, noting that this has been a routine gesture by him. He charged the representatives of the three local governments who received the items on behalf of the beneficiaries to ensure an equitable distribution of the palliatives. Responding on behalf of the three local governments, Dr. Yakubu Yahaya, Ga’Allah Daniel and Ya’u Yusuf from Bogoro, Tafawa Balewa and Dass respectively, thanked the ex-speaker for the items, adding that the beneficiaries will not forget the good gesture in their lives.