The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described as unsolicited, puerile, and uncharitable, what it said is a malice-induced assessment of its viability by a governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Mr. Bode Ayorinde. The APC said that it was amazing that “a man with Ayorinde’s education could claim that the party is not in charge. This betrays his crippled knowledge of events in the state.” READ ALSO:  Kaduna quarantines 50 inter-state travel ban violators The APC in a statement by its State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Alex Kalejaye, noted that “It is pertinent to emphasise that the ruling party is not only in power, but firmly in charge of its affairs in its entirety in the state. “The state chapter is more robust and united now than any period in the past. There are no teams, as referred to by Ayorinde in his interview. Efforts are being injected to further fortify the structures at various levels, to ensure easy ride to victory at the governorship election later this year. “In his desperation to return to the House of Representatives, Mr. Ayorinde willingly plunged into a political misadventure. He lost the election to a more acceptable candidate of the APC, Hon. Timehin Adelegbe. “It would be naive of us to expect a bitter mind to applaud what the APC-led government has thus far achieved in Ondo State, but we expect an aspirant that sincerely craves industrialisation to appreciate the unprecedented attention on road network in the last three years. The industrial hub in Ore has been described as a spring to massive industrial efforts in the state. “It is curious that Mr. Ayorinde invested much of his precious time analysing a party he willingly dumped for personal ambition. “The state chapter would be gracious enough to readmit him, if he perceives, intuitively, that there are better hopes and future for him in APC. Otherwise, we advise him to concentrate his energies on his governorship ambition.”