…Charges researchers, scientists to take up challenge …Expresses concern over increasing number of confirmed cases Three out of the numerous claims of COVID-19 herbal cure have been validated and forwarded to relevant authorities for validation, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has said. To this end, the PTF called on researchers and scientists to take up the challenge and come boldly forward with their innovation. Speaking at the resumed daily briefing on of the PTF in Abuja on Wednesday, the Secretary to the government of the Federation and PTF chairman, Boss Mustapha, said that the validation was made by the Federal Ministry of Health after holding a virtual meeting with Nigerian Researchers and Scientists. While stressing that the decision to meet with the researchers was also prompted by the incidents of mysterious deaths in Kano and some other cities, Mustapha said that the occurrences in Kano and some other cities have given cause to launch a research initiatives using existing structures and systems in a manner that will build a legacy and prepare Nigeria for any future pandemic. He said: “Out of the numerous claims, three were found to deserve further investigation and we have forwarded them to the relevant authorities for appropriate review. “As a measure of the importance attached to research and development of local capacity for finding a cure to the COVID-19, the Federal Ministry of Health held a virtual meeting with a number of researchers and scientists with claims to cure for COVID 19 and out of the numerous claimants, three were found to deserve further investigation and have been forwarded to the relevant authorities for appropriate review”. He added that efforts are equally being made to meet inventors of locally fabricated COVID-19 equipment. “Similarly, efforts are being made by the Ministry of Science and Technology to subject a good number of locally fabricated COVID-19 equipment for verification and subsequent certification”. On his part, Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, expressed concern over the increased number of confirmed cases in the country. According to him, the very high cases if not controlled could exceed the capacity of the nation’s health system to cope. “Though not surprising, we are concerned about the increasing number of confirmed cases. “This is because very high cases could seriously exceed the capacity of our health system to cope. Routine cases may also suffer as a result”, Ehanire said. While stressing the need to expand treatment centres across the country, the minister added that there are global efforts to find a cure for the disease and Nigeria is part of that effort. “To expand our treatment centres across the country. I therefore call on the State governors and philanthropists to take active and deliberate steps to scale up the number of beds for isolation and treatment of confirmed cases in their states. “As we prepare to move into the next phase of the response including the easing of the lockdown, we have conducted a high level technical session on strategic outputs of Mid-Action Review (MAR) and identified priority activities for the next phase of the response. “In addition, we have commenced development of sector specific advisories on re-opening. Training of health workers on case management is ongoing in more states,” Ehanire added.