7. A Coalition of Health Professionals in Akwa Ibom State have expressed displeasure over harassment of their members on duty in the state by police officers and other security operatives in the state. A statement titled ”
Stop the Pandemic,”  issued in Uyo
on Friday and made available to newsmen, said health workers who were at the
forefront of fighting the coronavirus pandemic even at the detriment of their
families have been subjected to more hardship in the hand of security
operatives. The coalition of health
workers comprises of Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), National Association of
Nigerian Nurses and Midwives (NANNM), Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN)
and Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria. The statement which was
signed by the Chairman of Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Dr. Nsikak Njoyoko
and other chairmen of the health workers’ unions condemned the actions of
security agencies and called for a stop to avoid unpleasant consequences. “The conglomerate will
want to observe that during this pandemic and lockdown, there has been cases of
harassment and assault of healthcare workers on essential duties by men of the
Nigeria Police Force. “A Medical Doctor suffered fractures as a result of assault by a police officer. Other healthcare workers have been variously harassed, assaulted and denied passage to their places of essential duties including the NMA chairman. US Food and Drug Administration allows emergency use of drug for coronavirus “The recent one is the
assault on a nurse by men of the Nigeria Police Force at the UUTH for no
justifiable reason. She was beaten to pulp; dragged from the first floor to the
ground floor; her uniform (symbol of office and service) was torn and her pride
as a woman violated. “This action had left
her traumatized physically, emotionally, mentally and professionally and her
dignity as a health worker despised. “Hence, we demand an
apology from the NPF to her and the healthcare professionals for this
harassment and assault and to compensate her adequately for this unwarranted
attack despite the fact that she provided care to the best of her professional
ability to a patient who was brought in unconscious. “We make bold to say
that if there’s a failure to meet this demand and a failure to stop henceforth
this incessant harassments and assaults, we will not hesitate to withdraw all
healthcare services in the state,” the statement said. Dr. Njoyoko appreciated all
healthcare workers in Akwa Ibom State for their courage and commitment in
fighting the coronavirus pandemic even at the risks of their lives. The health union leaders
urged all health workers to continue their selfless services in combating
COVID-19 pandemic, while remaining safe preventing themselves from hazards at
workplace.