Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, during the week, continued its strategic commitment, consistent efforts and vigorous voluntary operations to support the Nigerian Government and people in the fight to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. Sequel to
extending its “Food for our Communities Campaign” to Kaduna and Kano States
last week, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc yesterday also sent its hospital
palliatives donation team to deliver hospital beds and mattresses to isolation
centres in the two States. The Julius
Berger team was led by the company’s Project Coordinator for the
Abuja-Kaduna-Kano Road construction project, Mr Ibrahim Yusuf. The hospital
beds and mattresses donation in Kaduna State took the Julius Berger team to the
office of the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Hassan Usman Katsina
House, Kawo Kaduna, where the Julius Berger team leader, Ibrahim Yusuf, handed
the beds over to the Permanent Secretary, Office of the SSG, Alhaji Bashir
Muhammed. The Permanent
Secretary, on behalf of the Governor and people of Kaduna State, thanked Julius
Berger for the support the company offered Kaduna State “at this critical time
of the COVID-19 pandemic”. Bashir commended the company for its show of
goodwill and asked the Julius Berger team to convey “the appreciation of the
Kaduna State Government and people to the Management of Julius Berger for the
company’s sensitivity, empathy and magnanimity”. From Kaduna, the
Julius Berger team travelled to Kano State where the company also donated more
hospital beds and mattresses to the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital. The items
were handed over by Julius Berger’s team leader Ibrahim Yusuf to the Chief
Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, Professor Abdulrahman Abba Sheshe. Yusuf said the
donation of the beds and mattresses to the hospital’s isolation centre was
Julius Berger’s sincere way of identifying with the immediate and critical
needs of the hospital and the Kano community. The CMD,
speaking on behalf of the Honourable Minister of health, the Aminu Kano
Teaching Hospital and the Kano communities expressed gratitude for the
donation by Julius Berger. He requested the
Berger team to also convey the hospital’s sincere appreciation to the Management
of Julius Berger for the kindness of the voluntary donation, adding that it
will go a long way to assist the work of the frontline health workers in the
fight to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Kano. Julius Berger
which, amongst several other palliatives, has also donated Personal Protective
Equipment (PPE) to hospitals in the country, pledged that its palliatives
operations will continue to support the government and communities, until,
according to the company’s Managing Director, Engr. Dr Lars Richter, “…the
monster of COVID-19 is collectively defeated and dislodged out of our country
and communities”.