Customers in Ilorin, Kwara, have besieged banks in the capital city for transactions without observing the physical distancing rule, occasioned by the Coronavirus (COVID-19), global pandemic. This followed government’s announcement of the relaxation of total lockdown in the state from Monday, May 4. A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent, who went round the city on Wednesday, confirmed flouting of the physical distancing rule, as customers pushed and struggled to gain entrance into the banking hall. READ ALSO:  Evacuation of stranded Nigerians in US commences on Saturday – FG NAN reports that commercial banks like First Bank on Unity Road, UBA Challenge, FCMB, Eco Bank and others, witnessed customers trooping in without minding their close proximity to each other. Some of the residents who spoke with NAN, expressed worry over the lack of coordination in banks as customers struggled to make their way into the bank for transactions. A Customer at UBA in Challenge, Mrs Foluke Alao,  described the situation as ‘terrible’ as customers had to hang on the gate to wait for security to screen the next person to be called in.“As you  can see, we are all struggling to go inside. Even the security personnel are fed up with the situation; nobody even cares again about the physical distancing,” Alao said. Another Customer at UBA, Mr Wasiu Olaoye, said he was disappointed in Nigerians for their impunity and disregard for laid down rules that were aimed at keeping them safe. “Many customers in the bank now only care about the money or transaction they came for.“Nobody cares again about physical distancing. If you leave your queue, someone else will occupy the space,” he said. Alhaja Kudirat Babatunde, a Customer at Ecobank, said physical distancing was almost impossible to observe in Nigeria because of the country’s peculiarities and difficulties in carrying out any business. “The physical distancing is difficult to maintain in Nigeria. We do everything in Nigeria in a rush as you must push before you can claim your space. “We have been outside the gate for the past two hours, and someone is preaching physical distancing to me. Tell me how that is possible? Babatunde asked.Mr Olalekan Idowu, a customer at First Bank, Unity Road, said he was disappointed with the arrangement of customers at the ATM point.“ Can you imagine the queue at the ATM? Nobody is even thinking about physical distancing. Customers only want their money without fear of coronavirus.“They think face mask is enough to save them. They do not care about physical distancing in spite of the campaign in the media,” Idowu said. NAN reports that the state government on Sunday, imposed a curfew from 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., to reduce movements of residents and curb the spread of COVID-19. The government, however, directed that all residents should adhere to the precautionary measures put in place such as wearing of face masks in public, keeping physical distance; as well as washing of hands with soap and use of hand sanitiser.