An indigene of Nawgu community in Dunukofia Local Government Area of Anambra State and an Onitsha based business mogul, Sir Kingsley Izuchukwu Orjiakor, has donated bags of rice and other relief materials to widows in Nawgu community. Another of such gesture was replicated by members of Ebubechukwu Age Grade who donated over 500 pieces of yam to be distributed to the most vulnerable people in the community. Our correspondent gathered that the duo made the donations through the traditional ruler, His Royal Highest, Sir George Okaa-Onwuogu, Igwe Orachili na Nawgu. Speaking on the motive behind the donation, Sir Orjiakor said it was to ameliorate the hardship suffered by the beneficiaries owing to the Coronavirus lockdown. He disclosed that the gesture was a way of giving back to society that ensured his survival in a bid to complement the efforts of the state government and other prominent individuals in the community in the fight against Coronavirus pandemic. He disclosed his readiness to embark on other humanitarian projects in the community, noting that life could be better when all imbibed the habit of sharing their little resources with others around them. For his part, the Chairman of Ebubechukwu Age Grade, Prince Joachim Nwegbu, said the Age Grade which was solely formed to support developmental projects in the community, was prompted to donate food to vulnerable individuals because of the pandemic which created a situation of lack in most families across the nation. He stated that most of Nawgu indigenes, especially artisans, were confined to their homes as result of the directive issued by the government. He said the donated food items would serve people for a period of time and enable them to get back on their feet. The Age Grade Chairman disclosed the plans of the Age-Grade to embark on agricultural empowerment following the agrarian nature of the community. He said that the Age Grade would supply farmers in the community with insecticide, seedlings and cash to ensure food availability among families in the community. Nwegbu, who predicted scarcity of resources after the pandemic, noted that the agricultural empowerment which the Age grade intended to carry out, would protect the community from the scarcity which the pandemic would create in future. Supervising the distribution, Igwe Okaa-Onwuogu, revealed that the community during the pandemic received palliatives from the state government for those between 70 years and above and for youths, saying that the government’s palliatives had been distributed to all concerned individuals. He stated that the State government’s palliatives was followed by another from the President General of the community, Nnamdi Okeke, who brought 200 cartons of noodles, another indigene that brought hand sanitisers for those who did not receive the rice donated by the State Government. “Today we are witnessing another donation from Sir Kingsley Orjiakor and Ebubechukwu Age Grade for the widows and very poor persons in the community,” he stated. Igwe Okaa revealed that the town created a committee solely for the distribution of donated items and appointed notable youths to ensure equitable distribution to concerned individuals. He said that the palliatives were mostly shared based on the instructions and directives of the donors. The Vice PG, Christian Chukwuemeka Obiora, who manned the distribution of the donated items, said the items were mostly shared based on the local sharing arrangement in the community. He said that the items were distributed strictly on recommendation provided by the donors. For his part, the Youth Leader, Comrade Augustine Onyemaobi, thanked the donors for their contribution in lives of the less-privileged members of society. He disclosed that Sir Orjiakor had been into community service. One of the beneficiaries, a widow, Mrs. Caroline Ezeike, who was visibly happy, thanked the donors for coming up with the initiative geared at assisting widows in the present economic hardship. She commended the traditional ruler and those in-charge of the distribution for their fairness and ensuring that the items donated were given to the people they were meant for.