Offers free training, skills transfer through online platforms As the Coronavirus pandemic has continued to spread across Nigeria, the Nigerian Charitable Organisation UK (NNCA-UK), and the Nigerian Nurses/Midwives in the Diaspora have pledged its continued support for their  Nigerian counterparts who have been at the forefront since the beginning of the outbreak. In a statement jointly signed by the NNCA-UK President, Princess Wendy Olayiwola-Odutola and International Liason Director, Pastor Peter’s Omoragbon, the group reaffirmed its support through sharing of knowledge and skills transfers through online platforms. According to the statement titled “Celebrating and raising the profile of Nurses and Midwives in Nigeria during a global pandemic”, the training will assist in enhancing the knowledge required in handling COVID-19 patients. The statement read, “While we were excited, WHO declared the Year 2020 as the year of the nurse and the midwife, however, COVID-19 global pandemic has stripped the excitement from many nurses and midwives. “Nurses and Midwives have risen to the challenges and worked and continue to do so even with limited or no adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) . “They were putting their lives and those of their families at risk. NNCA UK, in collaboration with other Nigerian Nurses and midwives across the globe, have joined efforts to continue to support, transfer skills and share good practice through online platforms with our colleagues in Nigeria”. Speakers at the event include; the Director General of West African Health Organisation (WAHO), Professor Stanley Okolo, Dr Omobolanle Olowu,Public Private Partnership and Diaspora Unit of the Federal Ministry of Health, Abuja and Comrade Adeniji, Abdrafiu Alani mni: President, National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM). Others are; Mrs Kemi Ogunyemi, commissioner  Lagos State Health Service Commission, Aderonke Adetunji Head of Education Committee Nursing Council Nigeria, representing the Board Chairman Dr Bola Ofi and Mrs Vera Okolo Director of Nursing Services FMOH. The free online training which has the theme: “Staying connected with colleagues in Nigeria during a pandemic” is billed to hold on May 23, 2020.