There is global anxiety on what the future holds for humanity post-COVID-19, particularly in respect of the economy, healthcare, job security, and general wellbeing. According to Femi Adesina he said that naturally, Nigerians are not immune from the disquietude, as they belong to the global community. He went on to list below what he called a checklist of some measures that President Muhammadu Buhari has taken, and will further take, to make life abundant for Nigerians. This should assuage some apprehensions: – An economic team, headed by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning has been set up to examine the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. – Economic Sustainability Committee headed by the Vice President to define a post-COVID-19 economy for Nigeria. – Task force set up on free movement of farm produce headed by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. – Plans afoot to tackle weak health systems and infrastructure through establishment of standard laboratories, intensive care units, and isolation centres in all states of the Federation. The health infrastructure will eventually be recalibrated for the good of the people, and in readiness for future emergencies. – As long term measure, emphasis will be placed on integrating local content in proven researches in cure, and production of materials in the heath sector. – A Fiscal Sustainability Plan to complement the suite of monetary and banking interventions recently announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria. – A mass agricultural programme to be put in place. – Major rural road construction programme. – Mass housing programme. – Large scale installation of residential solar systems, utilizing mainly local materials. – Expansion of the Social Investment Programme. – The 2020-2022 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and the Budget 2020 assumptions and targets have already been revised. – Time-sensitive expenditures are to be prioritized over less critical spending. – Extant financial controls are to be strengthened to detect, eliminate and sanction instances of waste, funds misappropriation and corruption. Also, President Buhari had on Monday asked governors to  work closely with the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, to engender better harmony in the daunting task of checking the pandemic, President Muhammadu Buhari has said. The President spoke during an online meeting Monday with the Governors’ Forum, disclosing that the PTF had briefed him on next steps in the national response to the pandemic, “and I have directed that they work very closely with the Governors.” President Buhari said the pandemic was “beyond technology, power, and resources,” noting that countries that had all those, were recording highest casualties round the world. “We have to be very careful. We need to continue to educate and persuade the people to accept the reality of the situation, and do all that is necessary to stay safe,” the President said. The meeting also discussed economic and security issues, among others, with the Governors commending the President on the “leadership and direction” he has given the country in combating COVID-19. COVID-19: 8 doctors test positive in Zamfara — NMA 