The public has been urged to avoid the act of stigmatisation of persons affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19) as it was not a death sentence but should sensitise the populace on precautionary measures. A Community Leader, Mrs. Ngozi Mbachi, made the appeal to the women of Aboatulu Kindred Meeting during its COVID-19 pandemic palliative distribution. Mbachi said that over 50 women from Enugwu-Ukwu in Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State benefited from Aboatulu Women union palliative programme. She urged the public to stop stimatisation of persons already affected by the virus as such act would derail the efforts to contain the spread in various communities of the state. “All we need to do at the moment was to observe all the precautionary measures given by WHO and medical experts, stigmatisation would make the people to hide relatives with close symptoms. “Nobody would like to live with the stigmatisation associated with the coronavirus, the fear of been ill-treated would make people to hide information,” she said. Mbachi said that the people at rural areas are already aware of the dangers linked to the coronavirus, but sound enlightenment was required to drum the measures to the people. She urged the beneficiaries of the COVID-19 palliatives to be prudent in management of the resources available to them so as not to run out of food stock while the pandemic lasts. Mbachi appealed to Anambra State government to tighten security at borders in order to forestall influx of people as well as prevent spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state and not to create fear. She said that the union empowered ten women after skill training with fund to engage in small business like Zobo drink, puff puff, chi-chim and buns to ensure that the family are well cared for at the moment of hardship caused by the coronavirus out break. “No woman should fold her hands now but should try out their hands in lots of small business venture and farming to make ends meet,” she said. Mrs. Nwabugwu Okafor, a centenarian, who benefited from the palliative, said it would cushion the effects of coronavirus pandemic been experienced in the community and expressed joy over the action. Okafor commended the union executive for their service to humanity and urged them not to relent in been a good guide to the women of the kindred. Mrs. Elizabeth Okafor, aged 93, grandmatron of the Aboatulu women union, urged the women to use the palliative wisely and ensure that they educate their children on need to observe COVID-19 precautionary measures. Okafor said that since there was no known cure for the virus that they should follow all directives given to them so as to stay alive and appealed to government to ensure that security operatives carry out their duties. Mrs. Grace Anagor, Vice President of the union, said that the executives sourced over N500,000 from their husbands to achieve the vision to cushion effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on their members. She advised the women to carry the news to all their families and ensure they follow all directives to the latter. Mrs. Patty Anagor, a member of the union, commended the union executives for the training and empowerment given to the women to sustain their families and assured that they would spread the message to others. Mrs Uju Ekwoanya, the resource person who trained the women on soap making, bleach, zobo drink, buns and other snacks, urged them to ensure that the palliative was used for the purpose it was given. Ekwoanya, the Secretary of the union, said that they would ensure that awareness created would be adhered to. Our correspondent reports that the beneficiaries who included women entrepreneurs, the indigent and the aged, received cash gifts, bags of rice, trained women on skill was empowered among others. Also, the women were equally educated on COVID- 19 protocols including hand washing, social distancing, and use of face masks.