Ilorin –  A Microbiologist, Prof. Olatunji Kolawole of the University of Ilorin (Unilorin), has urged researchers to intensify research on ‘Viral Specie Jump’, causing danger to humans. According to him, viral specie jumps often occur when a virus gains the capacity to infect and spread among individuals of a new host species. Kolawole, who teaches at the Faculty of Life Sciences of the Unilorin, made the appeal in his research publication, titled: “Arbovirus, Viral Species Jumps and a Note to Health Care Providers-The Knockdown”. He explained that arbovirus or arthropod-borne virus refers to a group of viruses that are transmitted through arthropods. Arthropods are invertebrates with jointed legs and they include cockroaches, crabs, butterflies, beetles, centipedes, scorpions, shrimp, spiders, lobsters, lice, ticks, termites, potato bugs and sea monkeys. The don said that the viruses are also major causes of viral haemorrhagic fever including the West Nile Virus, Zika Virus, Rift Valley Fever Virus, Yellow Fever and Chikungunya Virus. According to him, the major problem associated with these viruses is that they are primarily of animal origin and have consistently found  more suitability in human host. “This has become a lot more common due to viral species jumps. Music Mogul and Hip-Hop Pioneer, Dies at 59 “Viral specie jumps often occur when a virus gains the capacity to infect and spread among individuals of a new host species. “This was common with SARS Coronavirus, HIV and Influenza A virus,” he said. Kolawole observed that the ease with which zoonotic viruses are evolving and constituting serious health challenges in Nigeria and other developing countries is alarming. He said viruses like Rift Valley Fever (RVF) and West Nile virus, which are primarily zoonotic virus, are now being easily transmitted to human via vectors. “This, coupled with the fear of potential outbreak of another viral haemorrhagic fever, has made arbovirus studies a key researcher’s area throughout the viral world,’’ he said. The virologist urged health practitioners in Nigeria to acquaint themselves with the typical clinical signs and symptoms of arbovirus infections in order to avoid missed diagnosis, prevent proliferation of possible diseases and reduce associated case fatalities. “The prevention of arbovirus infection is dependent on eliminating the risk factors that promote the survival of vectors responsible for their transmission. “It is therefore recommended that stagnant water, bushes and trees that can serve as their habitat are cleared in order to prevent the prevalence of the vectors,” the don said. He also advised that in areas where there are possibilities of an outbreak, residents should take cognisance of these viruses and be encouraged to clear standing water in and around their homes and offices where mosquitoes can breed. “Clogged drainages should be cleared, as well as any others like discarded tires that can store up water for the vector breeding. “Hospital laboratories should employ diagnostic tools that could be used in detection of arboviral infections to limit the possibility of missed diagnosis,” he advised. (NAN)