By Ukpong Ubong ABUJA–A global non-governmental organisation, Transparency International (TI), is fuming over allegation mouthed by a civil society group that it has been acting as informant to armed militant groups including Boko Haram waging war against Nigeria and other West African countries. TI, in a letter, said the allegation was not only false, baseless but also wicked targeted to destroy its entire anti-corruption movement reputation of almost three decades. It would be recalled that the Conference of Civil Society Organisations for Peace, Security and National Development, led by Comrade Mike Msuaan and Adamu Kabir Matazu, had alleged that the arrest of 28 informants of local and foreign nationals purported to have been leaking operational secrets to the Boko Haram terrorists has vindicated the military’s claim that the Transparency International (TI) and other NGOs were sabotaging its efforts. The claim was given wide publicity by the media. But in reaction, TI said the allegation was false and bereft of any evidence. In a letter signed by its Interim Managing Director, Transparency International, Daniel Eriksson, TI said it rejected the claim in its entirety. “We are not engaged in any activities cooperating, aiding or being in contact with any group considered illegal by the Government of Nigeria. “The suggestion that Transparency International is acting as an informant to armed militant groups in Western Africa is deeply offensive to our entire anti-corruption movement. “It damages the reputation that thousands of dedicated employees and volunteers have built over decades, through hard work guided by our values of democracy, integrity and justice. “Transparency International, and our national chapter in Nigeria, the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), reject these claims absolutely.” TI was founded in 1993 and headquartered in Berlin, Germany, to combat global corruption with civil societal anti-corruption measures and to prevent criminal activities arising from corruption. Its members have grown from a few individuals to more than 100 national chapters which engage in fighting corruption in their home countries.