A 28-year-old female widow who hails from Igboetiti local government area of  Enugu state has tested positive for coronavirus. She is among the 3 new cases confirmed today by the Enugu state government. The woman was said to live in Lagos with her husband who died recently and managed to smuggle her husband’s corpse back to Enugu State for burial, despite the lockdown in Lagos State and the national ban on inter-state movement. The State Commissioner for health, Dr Ikechukwu Obi disclosed on Tuesday that  Enugu State now has 15 cases, adding however that in all, six cases have been discharged after testing negative leaving nine active cases. He said the woman made it the 15th case. He said, “Her actions raised suspicion and the health authorities were alerted. She was subsequently tested and her result came back positive. “These unfortunate figures are coming up as a result of individuals who have deliberately disobeyed the lockdown order and inter-state transportation as ordered by the Federal and State governments. “In these times, we all need to comply strictly with all measures and regulations and exercise restraint from behaviours that will put others at risk”, Obi stated. ”3 new positive cases entered Enugu State illegally during the ban on interstate transportation. ”They include “Case 13, a 25-year-old man from Ondo State who lives in Lagos and made his way first to Akwa Ibom, then to Rivers State and finally to Obollo Afor in Udenu LGA of Enugu State, all within the period of closure of all land boundaries and inter-state movement. He developed symptoms while at Obollo Afor, the health authorities were alerted, he was tested and his result came out positive. “Case 14 is a 38-year-old male, from Okpuje in Nsukka LGA, who lives in Nassarawa State, and found his way back to Enugu State during the same period of lockdown. “On suspecting he may have contracted the virus, he initially went into self-quarantine in a hotel at Nsukka. He subsequently developed symptoms and alerted the health authorities. He was tested and his test result also came back positive”. He also disclosed that two cases that have tested negative.