The victim, Romina Ashrafi, had run away from home following her father’s opposition to her marrying a man she had “fallen in love with.” A 13-year-old Iranian girl was beheaded in her sleep by her father on Thursday in a so-called “honor killing,” local media reported. The incident occurred in the city of Talesh in the northern province of Gilan. The father has been arrested, the governor of Talesh told the official IRNA news agency on Tuesday, adding that “the details of this case will be made public after the legal process.” The victim, Romina Ashrafi, had run away from home following her father’s opposition to her marrying a man she had “fallen in love with,” according to local media. The man Ashrafi wanted to be with is reportedly 35 years old, according to local Iranian media outlets. After being found and returned home by the police, Ashrafi’s father killed her in her sleep using a sickle. Ashrafi was handed over to her father despite her “repeated warnings” that she would be in danger at home, according to reports. After killing his daughter, the father went to the police station with the murder weapon in his hand and confessed to what he had done, according to reports. The murder has been widely condemned by Iranians on social media. #Iran #honorkilling Teenage #girl elopes with lover, is caught by police & forced back home, where father stabs her to #death. Father won’t be charged with premeditated #manslaughter under law.Shocking!#Women#human_rights#honor_killing#Romina#قتل_ناموسی#زنان#رومینا_اشرفی pic.twitter.com/uDPBWcwPoS Since he is the “guardian” of the victim, based on Iran’s Islamic penal code, the father will be exempt from “qisas,” an Islamic term meaning “retaliation in kind,” or retributive justice. This 13-year old Iranian girl, Rumina, is a victim of anti-women laws in Iran.A 35-year old man tricked her into eloping with him. Then, she was arrested. The judge decided to hand her over to her dad.Her dad cut her head off in her sleep.There was no-one to save her pic.twitter.com/US1E6ep5cq The exact figures for honor killings in Iran are unknown. In 2014, Hadi Mostafaei, a senior police official at the time, said that honor killings made up 20 percent of the murder cases in the country.