…As another replicates Sanwoolu Daily Food Kitchen program in council AS the Lagos State government considers taking the search for the Covid-19 carriers to the community towards a quick eradication of the virus, the management of  Eti-Osa East Local Council Development Area has taken sensitization over the pandemic to the streets and markets within the council. READ ALSO:  AbdulRazaq hails monarch on 10th coronation anniversary The Eti-Osa East COVID 19 Enforcement Team, set up by the Chairman, Hon Olufunmi Rafiu Olátúnjí took to the streets and markets within the Local Council Area sensitizing and enlightening the populace on the new guidelines of the government on the ease of lockdown. The new guidelines which stipulate that every person must wear nose masks to public place, commercial motorists should not carry more than 60% of vehicle capacity. Markets visited by the Hon. John Campos led team, according to the Media Assistant to The Executive Chairman, Gbenga Arowolo, includes Temidire Market, Ajah CDA Market, Ajah Ultra-Modern Market, Akinyemi Complex, Addo Market, Badore Market, Ogombo Market and Sangotedo Market. This measures Arowolo said was designed to reduce the number of people that comes to the market at a time to maintain the physical distancing which will curb the spread of community transmissions of the virus. Members of the team were all engaged in the sensitisation of the people to give them better understanding of how to stay safe and help the government in stopping the spread of the virus. Members of the team involved in the sensitisation includes Supervisors Hon. Fadewe Balogun (WAPA), Hon. Jibade Sarumi (Education), Leader of the Legislative Council, Hon. Olaleye Taiwo Afinni, Deputy Leader, Hon Eletu Suleiman, Hon Nurudeen Odedina, Hon Tawa Agbaje, Mr Soji Fabuda, Mr. Kunle Àjàyí and Mr. Gbenga Arowolo. Addressing residents at Sangotedo markets, the team lead, Hon John Campos implored them to adhere strictly to government directives and so be an advocate of safety. He also solicited the help of the populace to endeavor to contact the Enforcement Team on designated numbers if there is anyone or group of persons indulging in any acts that can compromise the safety and wellness of the community and people at this critical time. In a related development, the chairman of Olorunda Local Council Development Area has commenced replicating the Daily Food Kitchen program of the Sanwoolu-led Lagos State Government in the LCDA. The programme the council said is parts of efforts aimed at helping to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 restrictions on the economy and general well-being of his constituents. The Sanwoolu Daily Food Kitchen is an initiative that provides a meal to 100,000 youth across the State daily and has recorded relative success with complementary effort from other tiers of Government. This, according to the SA Information to the Executive Chairman, Adeosun, Abdulwahab Adebowale has informed the replication of the program in Olorunda LCDA as the Council boss attempts to gain even more penetration with the complimentary effort. Speaking on the motivation behind the program, Hon. Samola said; “One of the biggest challenges we have as a nation is a lack of synergy. Replicating this State initiative at the LCDA level helps to beat that negative trend and consolidate on the successes of our tireless Gov. Babajide Sanwoolu. “When the initiative was introduced by the State Government, it successfully put food on the table of a good number of youth across the state, so what we are doing with this is to reachout to even more lives. “At this stage, every little effort counts and we as a government won’t relent in our effort to cater for our people as much as resources available allow us to.” The Food Kitchen outreach happened simultaneously in 13 distribution points across the 5 wards of the LCDA with the services of local food vendors at each distribution point employed in the preparation of the meals. This the Council Mayor identified as promotion and empowerment of the various vendors. Members of the Executive and Legislative arm of the government as well as Special Assistants to the Executive Chairman were on ground to oversee distribution at various distribution points, while the Executive Chairman also took time to visit some of the locations in person.