A scuffle over the paternity of a three-month-old child, has led to the death of a woman, Taiwo Adekoya, in the Mushin area of Lagos. It was gathered that the mother of the child, Anuoluwapo Adeyemi works for the deceased at Itire Road, Mushin. According to Adeyemi, who also lives with her boss, her husband had visited her on May 1, 2020, to know how she was faring with the baby. While discussing, a man identified as Owolabi Fasasi, had showed up, threatening to take away the baby, claiming paternity. While the argument ragged on, and sympathisers gathered, Fasasi decide to make good his threat. While he was dragging the baby from the mother and the husband attempted to stop him, Fasasi, hit the Adekoya, who collapsed. She was rushed to the hospital but confirmed dead shortly after. The Mushin Police Division was alerted and Fasasi was arrested for murder. Speaking on the incident, the Lagos Police Public Relations Offcer, Elkana Bala said: “ Anuoluwapo Adeyemi of Itire Road, Mushin, reported at Mushin Police Station that while having a discussion with her husband, who came visiting, as they live apart, one Owolabi Fasasi of Ogun Street Mushin, suddenly appeared, threatening to go away with her three-month-old baby, Kausarat Owolabi. “  That he did not explain why he is taking her child away. That people around made frantic efforts to pacify him but he refused. That he kept on shouting and threatening violence, insisting to take away the child. Tragedy occurred,  when he was dragging the baby in order to actualize his threat. “ He pushed the boss of the child’s mother, one Taiwo Adekoya who was one of the sympathizers and she became unconscious. The victim was rushed to Hospital, but was later confirmed dead. The corpse was deposited at the mortuary for autopsy. The suspect was arrested by homicide  detectives. Investigation is ongoing. The suspect will be charged to Court.” In another development, Detectives at the Lagos State Police Command, are investigating the circumstances surrounding the sudden disappearance of a 15-year-old boy, Daniel Mivheal, from an orphanage. The teenager who is said to be fluent in Yoruba and English Languages, was last seen on May 4, at the Finger of God Orphanage Home, Governors Road, Ikotun Bala also said: “ A man called Madu Ernest, the Administrative Officer/Social worker of Finger of God Orphanage Home, Governors Road Olorun, reported at Ikotun Police Station that on April 30, 2020, at 7a.m., one Daniel Michael, 15, was discovered missing from the orphanage home. “  Eforts made by the Orphanage to trace his whereabouts proved abortive. The missing teenager is dark in complexion. He speaks Yoruba and English languages fluently. He is a citizen of Togo. Investigation is ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding his disappearance and to trace his where about. ”