South Africa began to 
gradually ease its strict coronavirus lockdown on Friday, allowing some 
industries to reopen after five weeks of restrictions that plunged its 
struggling economy deeper into turmoil. Africa’s most  industrialised nation was already teetering with low growth and high  debts when the lockdown kicked in on March 27. COVID-19: Lagos Gov Sanwo-Olu Commissions 118-Bed Isolation Centre On Wednesday S&P downgraded the country’s credit rating further to junk. “The
 poor and the working class are having to bear the burden of a global 
pandemic that has caused severe economic and social disruption,” 
President Cyril Ramaphosa said in a televised May Day speech, adding 
that pre-existing challenges had been “exacerbated by the pandemic”. “As
 we begin the process of easing the lockdown and many people start 
returning to work, we must remain vigilant and careful,” Ramaphosa 
cautioned. “The road ahead will be long and hard, and we will make mistakes.” With 5,647 confirmed cases and 103 fatalities, South Africa has the continent’s highest COVID-19 death toll. But
 a mid-April government survey published on Friday showed that 
respondents were more concerned about a potential economic collapse than
 contracting coronavirus. Many also feared the outbreak would 
trigger civil disorder in a country marred by social inequality and 
sporadic outbursts of xenophobic violence. – ‘Very difficult battle’ – “Our
 president … has got a very difficult battle with managing livelihoods
 and economic issues together with health issues,” Paul Kapelus, a 
development specialist cycling at a Johannesburg park, said in the early
 hours of the first day of the eased restrictions. Around 1.5 million workers in selected industries will  return to work in the next phase under strict health conditions,  according to Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel. Winter clothing, textile and packaging manufacturing were among the industries permitted to reopen factories from Friday. Restaurants also opened only for takeaway deliveries but controversial bans on the sale of cigarettes and alcohol remained. Social distancing and wearing masks in public and at workplaces will be mandatory