.Directs security agencies to ensure strict compliance to advisories .Says, violation of lay down rules portends dangerous
trend .Set to strengthen enforcement collaboration with states Worried over the continued disobedience to rules and regulations put in place to contain the spread of Coronavirus disease, the Federal Government has intensified the monitoring of the level of compliance with the advisories and guidelines already issued. This is just as the government on Friday directed the
security agencies to ensure strict compliance to advisories adopted. Speaking during the daily briefing of the Presidential
Task Force on COVID-19 outbreak response in Abuja, the Secretary to the
government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, lamented that the flagrant
violations to the rules by Nigerians portend a very dangerous trend. He expressed worry that the present community
transmission phase been witness currently is taking a toll on the country with
the highest recorded cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. To this end, the SGF said that it has concluded plans to strengthen enforcement in collaboration with the states. Tanker explosion kills 2 in Ibadan He said: “All exempted persons including journalists
and medical personnel should always carry a verifiable and authentic means of
identification. “Security agencies should improve monitoring of
their personnel and interaction with the citizenry. “Citizens should respect the sacrificial role of
security agencies and desist from assaulting security personnel and damaging
security infrastructure”, he said. On the lack of sufficient bed space in some isolation
centres in some states, the SGF said that the PTF is examining the peculiar
circumstances as well as modify strategies for care management. “We have also received Reports from the States,
which suggests that the treatment centres are running out of bed spaces. “As we assess the situation, the PTF shall also
begin to examine our peculiar circumstances, modify the strategies for care
management and consider viable alternatives, where necessary. “At the appropriate time, the guidelines and
protocols shall be unfolded”. On his part, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire,
said that the current challenge revolve around repatriated Almajiris. While disclosing that most of them have tested positive
to the disease, Ehanire added that the ministry has deployed a multi-sectoral
technical team on a fact-finding mission to the states. “Calm has been restored in Gombe State Isolation
centres. “FMOH this morning deployed a multi-sectoral
technical team on a fact-finding mission to Jigawa State at the request of the
State Executive Governor. “The challenges in Jigawa revolve around repatriated
Almajiris, of whom many have tested positive for COVID-19”. He added that new efforts will be made to engage Kogi State
authorities for resolution of differences in the state.