A recent United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) report states that the number of people facing acute food insecurity has doubled due to the economic fallout of COVID-19. As one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies and the continent’s most populous nation, Nigeria is also negatively affected by the pandemic. In this regard, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of
Standard Bank Group, has joined other institutions to provide succour to
Nigerians who have no access to food. The organisation has partnered
Givefood.ng to provide food for 5,250 people belonging to families in desperate
need of food during these trying times. Givefood.ng is an emergency food relief platform with an
objective to provide one million meals to those in need across Nigeria. With
the generous support of its coalition partners, the initiative has already
delivered thousands of meals in Lagos, Kano and is on track to go nationwide in
the next couple of weeks. Givefood.ng gives everyone the opportunity to protect
our bigger family, and give food to those in need from the convenience and
safety of your home. The partnership is exemplary and worthy of emulation by
individuals and other corporate organisations. As for Stanbic IBTC Holdings
PLC, the organisation remains unwavering in its quest to provide relief and
succour to Nigerians during these trying times and always. Hunger, poverty, and diseases are interlaced, and the
presence of one may inadvertently result in the others. As an organisation which aims to positively affect
individuals and institutions in Nigeria, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC has made
several efforts to support the government, health agencies and the citizens of
the country in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The organisation has made
several financial donations to governments and private sector participants as the
country battles to mitigate the Covid-19 rage. With “Zero Hunger” as one of the targets of the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States
in 2015, it is imperative to have a world where there is no hunger, where there
is food security and where there is access to nutritious food by all.