After Cynthia Morgan took to Instagram live to allege that Jude Okoye was the cause of her career’s death, the music executive has come out to say his own side of his story. Speaking on Instagram live with controversial Instagram blogger, Tunde Ednut, Jude revealed a lot. READ ALSO: Cynthia Morgan is a liar, former manager, Joy Tongo releases official statement The live interview lasted for an hour and attracted a viewership that tipped over 26,000 viewers including Davido, Korede Bello, Paul Okoye, Toyin Abraham, Special Speesh, Peter Okoye, and many others. The music executive and CEO of Northside Entertainment addressed topics ranging from Cynthia Morgan to the split of Peter and Paul ‘PSquare’. According to Jude Okoye, he did everything possible to bring back Psquare, but it didn’t work. He said, “There is nothing humanly possible, that I didn’t do. I left the picture. they said I apologize to Lola Omotayo. I did. They said I must tweet something, I did. When Psquare hungry them to go do, let them do it when they are ready. I am done. I have my business.” Jude also revealed that he spent over 100 thousand dollars on Mr MayD, “I treated him as a brother, gave him a platform, flew him across America, put him on a show with Akon, and gave him a home in my place. We treated him as family. We spent over $100k. When I saw potential, I gave him a contract. He came after 2 2 weeks He came back after 2 weeks asking that he needed incentives: A big car, a house in Lekki, and more, just like the Square. I said no. Paul spoke to him, he said no. I told him to go.” Jude further revealed that  Peter and Paul are in good terms. He stated, “Peter and Paul are not fighting. Peter is angry with me because he wanted me out of Psquare. He didn’t want me as part of the group. I have left Peter Okoye over 5 times. I have asked him “wetin I do you several times.” He says “no worry, no worry.”” Furthermore, Jude Okoye stated he didn’t draft the contract he had with Cynthia Morgan, her manager, Joy Tongo did. “I don’t own her name, Cynthia Morgan. I never wrote her contract, she brought it and I signed. I have spent over N40M on Cynthia Morgan. I bought her the white Range. I bought land for her mother. She played secret shows and kept the money, but her manager said no.” Concerning Cynthia Morgan, Okoye revealed that she left him before her contract expired, “She’s been free since 2017. She left before her contract expired. I’ll send you her contract, you can post it. How can I hold someone’s mama and papa name? She can’t blame me for her failure.” Adding that he never stopped Cynthia Morgan from using her name; “It’s impossible for me to take Cynthia Morgan’s name. I don’t have the rights to her name that her mama and papa gave her. Which court wan grant me that case? I have never held anyone. She left me in 2017, and that’s that,” he noted.