The governorship candidate of   Social Democratic Party (SDP), a member former of the Abia state House of Assembly, Dame Blessing Nwagba has said that she weeps for Nigeria when she  thinks of certain things going on, like massive looting without showing concern to the people. Nwagba  in an interview with the The Sun lamented that if  the country had in place good medical facilities before now, somebody like   Abba Kyari no doubt, and many would have survived the coronavirus pandemic She said that there was this researchshe  did many years ago, the topic was “Monkey de work Baboon de chop”, she discovered that many people keep working yet there is this small, very insignificant population that you may call the “rich” always getting richer and these days it happens to be more in the political sphere. 11 COVID-19 patients die as  NCDC records 239 new cases I am a politician, that perception may be wrong, it is not only politicians that are rich, the only thing is that the politicians are always on the spot, in the eyes of everybody and whatever they acquire is seen as something from stealing. If you have a small house people will say, oh she wouldn’t have had it if not that she was in politics, meanwhile there are many others who have mansions and mansions everywhere who pinch from government and yet they are not politicians. I think the government needs to invest in areas, particularly in small and medium scale enterprises, make provisions for the small and medium enterprises to get loans; get facilities to enable us to develop that area so that wealth will be created and circulated, the gap will actually begin to reduce. The leaders must have a re-think and have the interest of the masses at heart because when you get the people frustrated and impoverished you (the rich) will not have the peace to enjoy your wealth, you will become a target when the people begin to revolt. She said I weep every day when I think of certain things going on, the massive looting without showing concern to the people. I came into government with great vision, hoping to make a great impact as possible as I can, I have done my bits, I thank God and pray for giving me the opportunity to still do more, but I think we need to realise that as leaders we must do all the necessary things for the benefits of our people, the citizens and not waste our country’s money. We should stop inordinate ambition, stop unnecessary primitive acquisition, stop carting Nigeria’s money away out of our country rather use it to provide for our society for the benefit of all. Look at Abba Kyari having to die in Nigeria, there was nowhere to run to and many others have died too, but if we had put in place good facilities before now, no doubt, many would have survived. So, what has happened is a lesson and challenge of leadership, that those entrusted with the mandate should at all-time be honest to deliver. If they fail to do that and take care of even emergencies when the time comes they will also be victims themselves. We should as leaders look inwards and provide all the necessary things for the development of our society. Again, we now realise what the basics are, all our cars are now parked, airplanes are now parked, no movement, our mansions scattered everywhere are there with nobody staying in them, etc. The issue is that we couldn’t see what was chasing us, no ammunition, but it was a war, even though they say it was bio-ammunition, but we can’t see it, yet we are running, we are dying. It’s time we realised the mystery of God and countenance the things that are important to us as human beings and give them more attention. We should look inwards and try to be happy with what we have, appreciate yourself, appreciate your neighbours, and appreciate your environment, among other things. 