The Plateau State governor, Mr. Simon Lalong has said that the total lockdown in the state will continue from Sunday, May 3 till Thursday, May 7. He made this declaration on Thursday even as he partially relaxed the existing restriction order in the state by three days to enable residents restock for the total lockdown The governor equally said all intra-state borders will be closed with effect from May 4, 2020, in order to curb community spread of the COVID-19. Rivers varsity resumes online lectures Monday–Registrar It will be recalled that the governor, who is also the Chairman of the COVID-19 Task Force in the state, had last Thursday, April 23, 2020, declared an indefinite total lockdown from midnight on Sunday, April 26th, 2020 on the state. The state government had also established 10 mobile courts meant to ensure enforcement and compliance with the directives. It said the move was aimed at protecting the citizens from the coronavirus pandemic and also ensuring that the entire state is fumigated. Lalong who disclosed this during a statewide broadcast in Jos, the state capital, noted that “Further to the efforts at combating COVID-19, government has taken the following decisions; that the total lockdown, which resumed midnight Sunday, April 26, 2020, shall be relaxed from midnight of Thursday, April 30, 2020 to midnight of Sunday, May 3, 2020 to enable people restock their homes. Thereafter, the total lockdown will resume on Monday 4th May 2020.” He maintained that, “This will henceforth be the pattern until further review. In order words, the period of restocking will last from Midnight of every Thursday to Midnight of every Sunday. “In addition to the total lockdown which closed movement in and out of the state, and in order to curb community spread of COVID-19, government has decided to close all intra-state borders with effect from 4th May 2020. “Consequently, there shall be no movement from one local government to another even during the period when the total lockdown is relaxed, except for those on essential services as earlier enumerated,” h stressed. The governor further stated that, “Starting from 4th May 2020, all citizens shall be required to use facemasks in public places in addition to observing all hygiene and social distancing regulations.