Promos 1. .Says it’s unethical not to attend to persons in distress .Laments lack of compliance with social distancing rules The Presidential Task Force on COVID -19 has called on all health care facilities, both private and public not to reject persons seeking medical help, especially in emergencies. Speaking during the resumed Daily briefing of the
Presidential Task Force on COVID -19 in Abuja on Monday, the Secretary to the
Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said it is unethical not to attend
to persons in distress. He therefore urged citizens to go to the hospital when
not feeling well and to cooperate by giving accurate information especially
with regard to travel history. The PTF lamented that it has received reports about
medical facilities and doctors turning back sick patients for fear of their
illnesses being COVID-19 related. While assuring Nigerians that the PTF is already looking
into the matter, Mustapha said that the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire,
would engage with the management of tertiary health institutions in the country
to address the matter. “The PTF has also received reports about medical
facilities and doctors turning back sick patients for fear of their illnesses
being COVID-19 related. “The PTF appeals to these facilities especially
public hospitals not to neglect treatment of other ailments because such
actions have resulted in avoidable deaths. “The Honourable Minister of Health will engage the
management of our tertiary health institutions to address this”, he said. He described as unfortunate that many Nigerians at the
first day of easing of the lockdown failed to adhere strictly to advisories
regarding the lockdown relaxation. While maintaining that there is a high level of violation
of the guidelines, the PTF Chairman revealed that interstate travel ban has not
also been compiled with, stressing that the evacuation of almajiris from
different states does not respect the guidelines nor follow the rule of the
ban. He reiterated that the danger of COVID -19 was not over
and that individual actions would contribute to the success or failure of the
new measures in place. “The PTF has been monitoring the level of compliance with some of the measures and early observations showed lack of compliance with social distancing and wearing of masks. COVID-19: Nasarawa gov’t tracks, returns 4 escapees to quarantine centre “We note particularly the chaotic scenes around the banks
and other financial institutions. We must reiterate that the danger of
infection is not over and that individual actions will contribute to the
success or failure of our measures. “We urge citizens to minimize the risk of getting
infected while trying to transact in the banks. We similarly urge the banks to
ensure that their ATMs and online banking systems are in good order and stocked
regularly to avoid convergence of customers in their premises. “The PTF fully understands the desire of Nigerians to
come out to continue their lives after five weeks of lockdown. States
Governments and Security agencies have however, been advised to enforce the
measures rigidly and violators will be prosecuted. “Let me remind you, once more, that this easing up is in
phases and those who are permitted to open have clearly been defined. Our
admonition to Nigerians is that it is still desirable to stay at home if there
is no compelling reason to go out and to comply with the measures always,
whether at home or not”, the SGF added. On the strange deaths in Kano State, Minister of Health, Dr.
Ehanire, in his address said that the ministry is strengthening its support for
Kano with service delivery and training in consultation with the governor. He added that the setbacks in routine hospital service
delivery in Kano were also being addressed by line experts. “With regard to Kano, the Federal Ministry of Health
is strengthening its support for Kano with service delivery and training in
cconsultation with His Excellency, the governor. “The setbacks in routine hospital service delivery
in Kano are being addressed by line experts from the Ministry, whether from the
National Primary Health Care Development Agency, the Department of Family
Health and a pathologist who is participating in the investigation of the
unexplained deaths in Kano. “The team shall be reinforced according to needs
expressed by the State government to strengthen its healthcare structure”,
Ehanire added.