A Lagos-based woman, identified as Madam Shade Moke, alias Mama popular, is in police custody, for allegedly contracting three men, to torture her 16-year-old maid, Halimat Sodiq, to death over N2,000 theft. Findings has it that the 41-year-old Moke,  had accused the deceased of stealing from her, and ordered her accomplices, John Okpara, Isaac Gboyelade, and one Akinseye, to beat up Halimat, claiming she was notorious for the act. It was gathered that Halimat allegedly collapsed, and died while been punched and tortured  by the men, at No.2, Odusanya Street in Bariga. On discovering she was dead, the suspects tried to cover up their mess, smuggling her body to Atan cemetery for a secret burial. The matter was however reported at the Bariga Police Division,  Lagos State Police command, and the parties involved arrested for the crime. Confirming the arrest of the suspects, the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Elkana Bala, said the Lagos Commissioner of Police had ordered the matter be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligenec Department (SCIID), Yaba. SERAP asks FG to publish details of suppliers, sites, budget for ‘home feeding programme’ Bala in a statement issued on Subay, said: “ The Bariga Police Station, On Saturday, May 9, 2020 at 11:30a.m.  received an information that Shade Moke conspired with three others on April 29, to kill one Halimat Sodiq, over an  allegation of stealing. The victim is said to be a house help to Shade Moke. She was alleged of stealing N2000 from her madam which she denied. “ That the madam invited the remaining three suspects who tortured the girl to death. They buried her secretly at Atan cemetery Lagos, so as to conceal the murder. The four suspects were arrested but they denied the allegations. They however, admitted slapping the girl for denying that she stole the money. They claimed that the girl went into convulsion after drinking water. “  They said the maid took her to three different hospitals before she eventually died. That the girl was buried by her parents not the suspects. The parents were also contacted for their statements. The Commissioner  of Police Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the immediate transfer of the case to SCIID, Yaba for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution. The suspects will soon be charged to Court. ” A non-profit organisation Advocates Children  and Vulnerable Persons Network has also expressed shock over the incident. The group express fear that Mrs Moke might have bribed  the deceased parents to prevent her and the three men from being prosecuted. According to the manager of the group, Mr. Ebenezer Omejilile: “The mother of the late Halimat was confirmed to have shown  up at the station, the alleged Shade Moke the instructor of the beating called her on phone to inform her about the incident and how she was brought to the station. “ She has pleaded with the mother of the deceased to give her more cash on the matter (inducement) so the poor mother of the late Halimat is saying that she didn’t want to institute any case against the suspects. Though she was given some money when her child died the suspect wants to renew the cash to shut her up. Poverty is eating her up”