The Lagos State Law Enforcement Training Institute (LETI) has mapped out new training modules on the use of body camera for law enforcement officers, to aid effective execution of their duties. The Director General of LETI, Mr Ifalade Oyekan,said this during a sensitisation programme by  the Vehicle Inspection Service at its Lagos Island office on Saturday. Oyekan said that this was the fourth round in the series of sensitisation and mobilization programmes for personnel of  all Lagos State Law Enforcement Agencies. READ ALSO: I am battling a gang-up, Bauchi governor cries out The Agencies visited are: the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA),the  Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps (LNSC), the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGSEC) and the  Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS). Oyekan said that for law enforcement officers to live up to their  expectations, there was the need to train and retrain them on best global practices. He said that the training was in line with the Lagos State Government THEMES agenda which are: Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; Making Lagos a 21st Century state; Security and Governance. Stressing the benefits of the body camera, Oyekan said:  “In other climes, their law enforcement agencies make use of dashboard camera and body camera which help them carry out their duties effectively. “One of the achievements of  Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is the introduction of I-witness body camera for all law enforcement agencies, as proposed by LETI. “The idea is that every officer will be assigned a camera and immediately he resumes duty, the camera is expected to be on  throughout his shift, this will also serve as clock in and out. “With the cameras assigned to officers, they will be able to capture offenders and violators which will help the Ministry of Justice to prosecute their cases in courts based on the evidence produced from the body camera. “Also, everything captured will be transmitted to the central database of the enforcement agency and officers will not be able to tamper with the device. With this, there will be more transparency and officers will carry out their duties as expected.” Oyekan said that beyond sensitising the officers, visits to the various agencies had enabled him ascertain their training needs in order to tailor the training curriculum to their challenges. He said that with the COVID-19 pandemic,  the institute would soon commence online training for officers in various cadres. Responding, Mr Hakeem Balogun, the  Area Commander, VIS, Lagos Island Command, expressed gratitude to LETI for enlightening them on innovative  ways to optimise their operations.