A police Inspector from Police Mobile Force (PMF), Number 21, Abuja, Monday Gabriel, has been arrested for opening fire on his colleagues, killing a sergeant, Felix Okago, at Onikan area of Lagos. The Inspector who was part of a police team reportedly on Special duty at the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) building, had gone on a shooting spree after a heated argument with his colleagues on Sunday morning, around 5a.m. While other team members escaped unhurt, Okago sustained bullet wounds which resulted his death. It was learnt that in an attempt to flee the scene of the crime, Gabriel had hijacked the team’s operational vehicle and drove straight to Akoka, Yaba, where he attempted to force his way into a compound. Seeing he could not access the Iron door the trigger-happy policeman allegedly resumed another round of shooting, firing at the door, ceiling and fence to the compound. Residents who feared the worst, and thought robbers were on rampage, later noticed the shooter was dressed in black outfit, and drove in a patrol vehicle painted white, with police inscription and siren. The Bariga Police Division, and the Rapid Response Squad were alerted, and operatives were immediately deployed to the troubled area. The Inspector had attempted to escape, but was unfortunate as his vehicle got stock in a ditch. He was however, arrested. A resident who refused his names mentioned, said at least 30 bullets were counted from the shooting at the Akoka compound. The resident also disclosed that the policeman was shouting that unknown perons wanted to corrupt him, and that he should be allowed to ho home in Jesus name. Reacting to the incident, the Lagos State Police Command said it had begun an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the shooting. According to a statement by the command’s spokesperson, Elkana Bala, the Commissioner of Police has directed the Depth Commissioner of Police in charge of Investigation to take over the investigation of the matter. Bala in the statement issued on Sunday, said: “ The Area A Command received a distress call that one Inspector Monday Gabriel from No 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron Abuja, on Special duty in a Federal Government facility in Ikoyi Lagos, went berserk and started shooting sporadically. “ One Sergeant Felix Okago who was on Special duty with the Inspector, died from the gunshot injuries while others escaped unhurt. In an attempt to escape, he took a patrol van and headed towards Third Mainland Bridge, shooting as he was escaping. “ He was intercepted by Policemen from Bariga Division along Akoka, disarmed and handcuffed. The rifle and vehicle were recovered. The corpse of the deceased Sergeant is deposited in the mortuary for autopsy while the Inspector is taken to Police Hospital for medical examination as he presented signs of mental depression. “ The Commissioner of Police has directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of investigation to take over the investigation. The Command deeply condoles with the family of the fallen colleague who paid the supreme price in service to his fatherland.”