Nine travellers from Sokoto State have been intercepted at Asejire, a border town between Oyo and Osun states, for allegedly contravening the COVID-19-induced inter-state movement restriction order. According to reports  the travellers were apprehended by security agents at the border on Saturday and taken to the Divisional Police Station, Gbagi, Ibadan, for interrogation. READ ALSO: COVID-19: 4-year-old tests positive in Bauchi During interrogation, which was supervised by Oyo State Gov. Seyi Makinde, the driver of the bus, Muhammed Idris, said that the travellers reside in Akure. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Shina Olukolu, was present during the interrogation. Idris said the travellers live with their immediate families, but travelled to Sokoto for burial of a relative during  which the state was locked down. He said they decided to return to Akure when a  person who returned from a journey told them  in Sokoto that inter-state movement restriction was not effective. Idris said the vehicle was stopped at different locations during the journey, but he did all he could to beat security patrol. He added that they were stopped in Kebbi State and tested for COVID-19  and were later released to continue the journey after the tests returned negative. Makinde expressed surprise that some individuals could embark on inter-state travel  in spite of the decision of all state governors to enforce inter-state movement restriction order. He said the enforcement of the order was expected to make all inter-state motor parks closed. The governor said that the travellers would undergo COVID-19 test and be isolated in the state pending the release of the test results. “They were not able to explain how they got here in the first instance. “There is an inter-state movement restriction  throughout the country, and they claimed they came from Sokoto; they must have passed through so many states before getting here. “We have taken their samples; they cannot go anywhere until they get the results,” he said.