…Say they don’t legislate for states …Accuse Sokoto gov of misguiding NGF …Govs set up c’ttee to interface with lawmakers on proposed bill The House of Representatives, on Thursday, reacted angrily to the demand by state governors that it suspends action on the contentious infectious diseases bill before the lower chamber of the National Assembly. The Daily Times recalls that the 36 state governors, under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), had in a communique at the end of their meeting on Wednesday, called on the Green chamber of the National Assembly to to step down the Infectious Disease Bill to allow for wider consultations with stakeholders. It also set up a three-member committee made up of governors Aminu Masari (Katsina), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Simon Lalong (Plateau) to meet with the leadership of the National Assembly over the issue. This was contained in a communique signed by the Chairman of the forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, after the 8th COVID-19 teleconference meeting of the NGF held on Wednesday. “Following an update from the Governor of Sokoto State and Vice Chairman of the NGF, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, on the proposed Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020 introduced by the House of Representatives, Governors raised concern with the lack of consultation with State governments who are at the forefront of the epidemic. “The Forum resolved that the Bill should be stepped down until an appropriate consultative process is held, including a public hearing to gather public opinion and concerns. “In the light of this, the Forum established a Committee comprising the Governors of Katsina, Sokoto, and Plateau to lead a consultative meeting with the leadership of the National Assembly on the proposed Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020. The NGF Secretariat was also mandated to comprehensively review the Bill and its implication on States,” the communique which was issued on Thursday read in part. But reacting, the House of Representatives accused Governor Amunu Tambuwal of Sokoto State of misguiding the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) over the contentious infectious diseases bill, stating that the House doesn’t legislate for states. Chairman House Committee on Media, Rep. Benjamin Kalu, made the assertion on Thursday in a statement. The House declared that the position of the Nigeria Governor’s Forum that because state governors were not consulted and as such the bill be stepped down by the House was untenable. The House argued further that against the impression given in the NGF’s communiqué, the House has resolved to subject the bill to a public hearing where Nigerians from all walks of life will have the opportunity to make their inputs towards the draft legislation. Also, it asserted that the NGF’s position is rather belatedly, as the House legislates for the entire country and for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “It is rather surprising that the NGF, in arriving at its decision, relied on an update from the governor of Sokoto State, who, apart from being a lawyer, is a former speaker, who should know better and guide the forum accordingly. “We assume that his position was informed by his well-known personal and partisan opposition to the emergence of the current leadership of the House considering his obvious stance in 2015 and 2019. “Unlike in a constitution amendment matter, where state Houses of Assembly have a defined constitutional role to play in effecting any review to it, bills such as the control of infectious diseases are not by our constitution subject of concurrence of state Houses of Assembly or state governors. “We do believe that our respected governors are aware of this lawful processes of legislation and should not be misguided by a biased position of a former speaker. “The House of Representatives and indeed, the National Assembly, are independent of the control of any state governor or former speaker, except if we want to change that now. “Even at that, it has to be by a constitutional amendment sponsored the citizens and not by the personal view of one governor and former speaker,” Rep Kalu ssid. However, he added that the House is willing to interface with the committee raised by the governors on the bill and that the NGF is free to make its position on the bill known through a memorandum during the planned public hearing. “Till date, no single governor has called the speaker or anyone in leadership to express his views. It is our belief that there are better channels of communication available to the NGF to address the leadership of the House instead of the pages of newspapers. “The House is also concerned that the presence of the Sokoto State governor in the NGF’s consultative panel may not guarantee a smooth interface. “Thus, the House calls on the NGF to review the membership of the consultative committee so as to achieve the desired objectives with the unbiased members during their engagement with the leadership of the House. “It is instructive to note that the 1999 Constitution (as amended) in Section 60 gives the House the powers to regulate its legislative activities and the House would not shy away from that. “Members of the 9th assembly are united irrespective of party affiliation and will continue to do those things that will promote good governance, unity and progress of our country,” the statement added.