A Lagos-based man, Ede Tyndale, aged 50, has been arrested and arraigned in court for defiling his daughter (name withheld) for eight years. Report about the strange act reached the police on May 9, when a 45-year-old woman (name withheld), reported the matter at the Ikotun Police Division. It was learnt that the woman, who was later found to be the mother of the girl, had noticed that the daughter, now 19-years-old, was being disrespectful to her father. The woman called the teenage girl to order, insisting to know why she was acting strange and disrespectful. It was at this junction that the girl opened up to her mother that her father had been having sexual relations with her since she was 12-years-old. The girl claimed her father had threatened her not to tell anyone, hence the silence about the act. Tyndale was arrested by operatives of the Family Support Unit and charged to the Chief Magistrate Court ll, Ogba. The Lagos state Police spokesperson, Elkana Bala, who confirmed the arrest and arraignment of the suspect, said the case was adjourned to June 15. Bala said: “On May 9, at 2:30pm, a 45- year- old woman (name withheld) reported at Ikotun Police Station that her husband, Ede Tyndale, of Kajola Street, Ikotun is committing incest with their 19 -year- old daughter (name withheld). “Trouble started when the woman noticed some strange behaviour from her daughter and decided to find out why the sudden disrespect towards her father. “The survivor opened up to her mother that her father started having sexual intercourse with her when she was 11- year- old. “That he often threatened violence whenever she resists him. That the father instilled so much fear in her that she finds it difficult to report to anybody. The suspect was arrested by detectives from the Family Support Unit. “He confessed to the commission of the crime. After a thorough investigation into the case, the suspect was on May 11 charged to Chief Magistrate Court ll Ogba, on a five -count charge of incest, rape, sexual harassment, defilement and dexual assault. “He is remanded in police custody while the case is adjourned to June 15, for hearing. ”