…Says action in protest of incessant harassment by security agents …IGP directs personnel to exempt essential service providers from restriction of movement, curfew Doosuur Iwambe with agency report The Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has issued a sit-at-home directive to its members to protest harassment and intimidation by security operatives in the states. According to a statement on Wednesday, signed by its chairman, Dr. Saliu Oseni and Dr. Ramon Moronkola, the secretary of the association, the directive took effect from 6pm on Wednesday. The Daily Times understands that more than 50 essential workers, including doctors were alleged to have been arrested by the police in Lagos on Tuesday following the order by Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, to ensure strict enforcement of directive on restriction of movement and curfew which runs from 8pm- 6am. The association said the sit-at-home directive is to protest against the “incessant harassment” of doctors and other health workers by security agents enforcing the directive on restriction of movement in Lagos. According to the guidelines issued by the presidential task force on COVID-19 and the Lagos state government, essential service providers, such as health workers, are exempted from the restriction of movement, especially during curfew hours from 8pm to 6am. NMA alleged that enforcement officials ignore the exemption of health workers, and that many of its members have been subjected to “harrassment and intimidation”. The association also said it received many calls from its members on Tuesday, with reports of “several cases of harassment and intimidation of doctors and other health workers” by security operatives, to the “extent that even ambulances carrying patients with emergency cases were impounded”. The statement reads: “We have observed that despite the directives of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhamadu Buhari, through the Presidential Taskforce on COVID 19, which was clear on the exemption of essential workers including doctors and other health workers from the ongoing lockdown/movement restrictions, (but) the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, has been issuing conflicting directives on social and mainstream media to the effect that essential workers, including doctors and other health workers, are NOT exempted. “As a direct result of the conflicting directives of the government and the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, the Lagos State branch of Nigerian Medical Association was inundated yesterday (Tuesday) evening of several cases of harassments and intimidation of doctors and other health-workers by officers and men of the Lagos State Police command to the extent that even Ambulances carrying patients with emergency cases were impounded. This has become a recurrent issue. “The Lagos State Branch of the NMA has resolved that it is presently unsafe for members to continue to provide healthcare services under the present confused arrangement. “You are hereby advised to proceed on a sit-at-home, in your best interest, starting from 6pm today, Wednesday, 20th May, 2020 indefinitely, until otherwise advised.” But in solidarity with the sit-at-home order issued by the NMA in Lagos State, the leadership of Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN) has also directed its members to stay at home until there is a uniform directive on movement and curfew during the COVID-19 lockdown. According to the President of HCPAN, Dr. Adeyeye Arigbabuwo, reports in some states, including Lagos, revealed that vehicles, ambulances were impounded between 8p.m. and 6a.m. on Tuesday. His words: “In line with our proactive measures defending and protecting healthcare providers nationwide, and until the resolution of the directives are properly presented and are uniform, concerning the compliance with the Federal Government’s directives, we advise health workers, who are our members, not to risk or venture movements during the curfew. “Therefore, stay at home rather than risking harassment and seizures of your ambulances and other logistic means during the curfew. “We shall direct otherwise as soon as there is uniform compliance of the states to Federal directives.” Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has directed Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) and Commissioners of Police (CPs) to exempt essential service providers from movement restriction order. This was contained in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mbah, on Wednesday in Abuja. Adamu said the directive followed inquiries on the status of essential workers in respect of the due enforcement of the national curfew and inter-state movement restriction orders declared by the Federal Government. He explained that it had become necessary to clear all ambiguity on the position of the police, especially as it relates to persons on essential duties. “The force is not oblivious of the sensitive, indispensable, patriotic and front line role of the nation’s workforce that falls within the category of Essential Service Providers in government efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “To this effect, all essential workers including medical personnel, ambulance service providers, journalists and firefighters remain exempted from the movement restriction orders as well as the national curfew,” he said. Adamu called on zonal AIGs and Command CPs to give maximum effect to the orders and extend due courtesies to essential service providers so affected. He enjoined all workers who fall within these categories not to take undue advantage of their positions and privileges to advance other purposes not connected with the performance of their duties The IG urged the AIGs and CPs to ensure that personnel deployed for the enforcement duties respect the fundamental rights of the citizens. Reacting to the Inspector-General’s new directive, Lagos State NMA said its sit-at-home position stands until the safety of its members is guaranteed. Secretary of Lagos NMA, Dr. Moronkola Ramon, said Lagos State government must come out clearly to assure the safety of all health workers in the state.