In the virtual message, Setonji was of high concern, expressing his view on the partial order of ease and maintained that the people of his Constituency, Badagry at large and Lagos in general, should A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, representing
Badagry Constituency 2, Hon. David Setonji has challenged his constituents and
the people of Lagos State not to take the easing of the lockdown in the state
with carelessness, urging them to continue to maintain physical distance as they
have been observing, essentially in their day to day activities and movements. Setonji who was reacting to the partial easing of the coronavirus
induced lockdown in the state and part of the country by the Federal Government
said he was highly concerned about how the people conduct themselves during
this window provided by the easing of the lockdown. The lawmaker in a release by his media aide, Posu Davies emphasised that everyone should continue to go the extra mile and be cautious at every point in time, noting that “COVID-19 is real. It’s not a joke. Your life is very important to us. Be safe.” Buhari seeks outright debt cancellation for Nigeria, others from IMF, World Bank Hon. Setonji, said as a matter of urgency, in containing the
pandemic generally, everyone should be on surgical masks, gloves and be at least
two metres away from other people. While citing a relevant example as regards the use of
vehicles, he maintained that everyone should be on the alert. According to him,
“I am using this medium to implore you all to please be cautious while in
the vehicles. Be aware that we are now at the communal phase of COVID-19 where
the infected have no label for recognition. In this critical portion, I appeal
to you to continue practising health hygiene and be careful at all times.” He noted that as the lockdown eases everyone should guard
and guide ourselves, “In the office, in the vehicle, at home, and everywhere, be
on your face masks, avoid direct contacts with people as much as practicable
and be safe,” Setonji advised. He also paid a particular attention to the elderly who are
more vulnerable at this time and appeal that they should be advised to stay at
home in order to contain the dreadful and deadly disease.