The story of Anthony-Wisdom Okoro also known as “The Man” would make you question yourself, “What was I doing at 16 years of age?” Anthony-Wisdom Okoro is a Music Producer, composer, and Sound Engineer, he hails from the eastern part of Nigeria, his family resides in the Mega City of Lagos. Anthony started off as a Rapper, he would often do covers of trending rap songs until 2013, when his interest underwent a change as he was now interested in the making of songs, so he undertook classes and training and at the age of 16 he was already a professional in digital programming of songs. Anthony went to Canada to study Electrical Engineering at Dalhousie University in Halifax. He continued creating sounds and mixing songs until someday his roommate connected him to some Canadian artistes. After creating many hit songs, Anthony soon took the streets of Nigeria working with Nigerian artistes Danlil Boy, Dimplez Shuga, Jesse Flames and Akin Music. When asked how he got a record deal at just 22 years, he replied: The record label was just the icing on the cake, when I was offered to sign I had thought about it and realized that if this isn’t gonna remain a hobby then I would need some sort of professional management and that’s why I decided to sign the management deal with the label, also one of the shareholders in the label is a relative so that soft pedalled the whole process for me” Speaking on how he was able to make hits, Anthony was miserly with words, saying he couldn’t explain how, he admitted that all he does with his clients is to make music they love and it becomes a hit. He, however, attributed his hit songs as simply God’s favor and having the right vibe. May 25, he would be 23 years of age, He has already started his career in the right altitude, a career and life which is enviable to the younger generation. He also had some wise word of advice for those aspiring to be Music Producers. “I would advise young people to start early with their talents and passion, then they can further their learning later , music schools and courses will help shape your passion and sharpen your skills but you can’t teach passion! So if you love it and enjoy it then do it!! Not having a music degree is not an excuse”. With his distinct sound, ability to produce any genre of music, Anthony A.K.A ‘The Man’ is indeed a silver line in the world of Nigerian music producers.