… says No 5G licenses issued yet The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has dismissed the claim in some quarters that the Nigerian Telecoms Industry will switch on 5G in Lagos on May 10, 2020. In a statement made available to the Daily Times on Monday
by the Commission’s Director of Publicity, Dr Henry Nkemadu, the NCC says
there is currently no deployment of 5G in Nigeria at the moment, adding 
that the Commission only approved a trial test for 5G for a period of three
months and the installation was decommissioned after its conclusion. According to Nkemadu, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta,
Executive Vice Chairman, NCC said that “the trial among others was to
study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might
present. Relevant stakeholders including members of the security agencies were
invited to participate during the trial’’. Nkemadu assured that the NCC will continue to
maintain its policy of technology neutrality and will continue to encourage
service providers to deploy the best technology that will meet the needs of the
society “in a secured and friendly manner”. “The NCC had provided clarifications of Frequently
Asked Questions on 5G in view of the recent developments in which misleading
materials with no proven evidence are being circulated to link CORONAVIRUS or
COVID-19 with 5G Technology and therefore refutes the claim that there will be
switching on of 5G in Lagos in its entirety. The Commission also provided
clarifications on the laying of fibre optic cables within Lagos and other parts
of the country to the effect that the laying of additional fibre optic cables
is to strengthen the existing 3G and 4G infrastructure to provide robust and pervasive
telecoms infrastructure to improve network performance. “5G is the fifth generation of mobile technology which
is an improvement of today’s 4G technology with enhanced capabilities. 5G technologies
provide the platform for new and emerging technologies such as the Internet of
Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data to improve the way we
live and work. “NCC has not issued any licence for 5G in Nigeria and
therefore the mobile network operators (MNOS) cannot switch on such technology.
NCC is technology-neutral as such we don’t license technology but assigns
spectrum to operators for deployment of any service when allocated by National
Frequency Management Council (NFMC). “As the telecoms regulator, we enjoin Nigerians
to get accurate information from us rather than relying on information
emanating on social media by some individuals out of ignorance to misinform our
people said Danbatta,” the statement added.