Wife of Kebbi state Governor, Dr. Zainab Bagudu, has extended the awareness campaign on COVID-19 and distribution of palliatives to hamlets across the state. Malam Yahaya Sarki, Special Adviser to Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi state on Media made this known in a statement made available in Birnin Kebbi on Sunday. He said the exercise was necessary in view of the fact that those living in hamlets were part of the society, hence the need to be sensitised on coronavirus and also enjoy palliatives from government and other philanthropists. Sarki said the gesture was part of efforts to cushion the effects of hardship brought by lockdown as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. “It is in respect of this, the Northern Governors’ Wives Forum (NGWF) passionately distributed palliatives to indigent and vulnerable groups in the 19 northern states. “Members of the forum agreed to reach out to vulnerable groups in their various states. “Over 3,000 beneficiaries had been provided with assorted food items to ease hardship during the lockdown period. “Thus, in pursuit of this agenda, the wife of Kebbi state Governor, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu has reached out to vulnerable groups including; women, unemployed youths and disabled groups across Kebbi state,” he said. According to him, the governor’s wife distributed food items and sanitary items as palliatives across the length and breadth of the state. He said that she used the distribution exercise to educate the rural populace on COVID-19 prevention which was carried out in compliance with social distancing and other public health advisory measures. Sarki noted that the governor’s wife updated the people of the state on proactive measures taken by Kebbi state government and task force against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in their domains. The media aide said face masks, sanitisers and other items were distributed while discouraging lectures and congregational prayers this Ramadan. “Among others, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu personally led an awareness and palliative campaign against the spread of COVID-19 to the scenic town of Illo, in Bagudo Local Government Area of Kebbi state. “She made two stop overs to distribute food items to vulnerable persons and empowered the women in the community,” he said. According to him, at Illo, the governor’s wife dwelt on the need for the communities to present their children for routine immunisation and encouraged pregnant women to go for antenatal care in primary health care centres. “During a brief stop at the palace of the District Head of Illo, Alhaji Muhammadu Wankwai, she appealed to the district head and his chiefs to intensify prayers to overcome the pandemic. “The governor’s wife observed that in view of the proximity of Illo to neighbouring Republic of Benin, there was need for the residents to be on high alert to identify persons with symptoms of COVID-19. “She also reminded the community that Kebbi state government had now made it mandatory for all persons entering the state to undergo a 14-day quarantine and compulsory wearing of face masks in all public places. “In addition, at Illo General Hospital, 200 women with either up-to-date in ante-natal attendance or fully immunised children were sensitised. “Bagudu rewarded the women with safe birth kits, food and sanitary items as well as baby pampers from Procter and Gamble’s donation to the state,’’ Sarki said. He explained that some of the food items distributed were donated recently by Power Oil and Unilever companies to women in Kebbi via the office of the wife of the governor. He said the general hospital staff also benefited from the gifts as they received items like; contactless infrared thermometers, surgical masks, hand sanitisers, antiseptic soaps, buckets and clothing. Sarki said that the items were meant to boost the morale of staff and to also assist in protecting the frontline staff from droplets infection, as they selflessly and diligently carried out their duties. He mentioned that in a separate programme held at the Police Station in Illo, Bagudu reached out to 200 beneficiaries selected from the wards across Illo, under the auspices of the Northern Governor’s Wives Forum. Sarki said the governor’s wife had also inaugurated a team that visited Yauri, Jega, Zuru and Fulani Rugga in Argungu and distributed food palliatives to vulnerable groups in villages where over 1, 000 people benefited. He said similar distribution exercises had also taken place under the auspices of the Medicaid Cancer Foundation, an initiative of Bagudu in the FCT villages of Dakwa and Pwoiyim where 800 lives were lifted with food distribution. Sarki said the food items distributed in Kebbi state include; rice, millet, cooking cubes and cooking oil. He said that lifebuoy antiseptic soaps, toothpaste and locally-made fabric masks were also distributed.