The Enugu State Ministry of Health says it has begun intensive sensitisation of residents on the dangers of Lassa fever in all the 17 local government areas of the state. The Director of Public Health in the ministry, Dr. Okechukwu Ossai, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Thursday. A World Health Organisation (WHO) publication-mediacentre- says “Lassa fever is an acute viral haemorrhagic illness of two to 21 days duration that occurs in West Africa. “The Lassa virus is transmitted to humans via contact with food or household items contaminated with rodent urine or faeces.’’ According to Ossai, the state is on top of the situation following the reported deaths due to the disease from the neighbouring state of Imo. “We are still sensitising the residents on ways to be free from Lassa fever and other diseases as well. “The ministry has provided enough personnel and protective facilities to various health centres in the state,’’ he said. The director advised the residents to always maintain good hygiene by covering their food items and desist from bush burning to check rodents from coming into their houses. FG begins distribution of palliatives to orphanages in FCT The Federal Government on Thursday began distribution of palliatives to orphanages in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to cushion the effects of COVID-19 lockdown on the homes. Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, flagged off the distribution on Thursday at ANAWIM Orphanage Home, Gwagwalada. Farouq said 25 orphanages in the FCT would benefit from the gesture which would also be replicated in some other orphanage homes across the country. “The mandate of the ministry is to provide humanitarian relief to our people both at home and abroad. “The COVID-19 has presented economic and humanitarian crisis. Thus, we need to help in addressing the issue. “Twenty-five orphanages in the FCT will benefit from this programme. We are giving them 500 bags of rice, vegetable oil, garri, face masks, milk, spaghetti and many other food items. “This is a flag-off and we are going to provide same to other orphanages in other parts of the country,” she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Farouq was represented by her Special Adviser on Humanitarian Affairs, Alhaji Musa Bundugu. Speaking, the General Coordinator of ANAWIM Homes, Rev. Sister Orisoa Ojeme, appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari and Farouq for the gesture. NAN reports that the homes that benefited during the ceremony included Al-Ansar Home, Kuje; Good Shepherd Orphanage, Kwali; Shining Star Orphanage, Lubge and Halal Children Home, Lubge.