.Says Rivers in danger of escalation of pandemic The Rivers State Governor, Barr. Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has alerted the world that the escalation of the coronavirus pandemic loomed large in the state due to what he described as the hypocrisy of the Federal Government and the alleged willful sabotage of the security agencies. In a state broadcast on Friday, Governor Wike said that
the predicament of the state could not be over-emphasised. He said: “This being so, it has become imperative to
alert the state and in deed, the entire world, of the fact that a dangerous
escalation of COVID-19 pandemic in Rivers State looms large in our horizon due
largely to the hypocrisy of the Federal Government and the continuous acts of
willful sabotage by security agencies. “Therefore, while we cannot overstate the gravity of
our present predicament, nobody should be surprised should Rivers State witness
exponential increases in the infection and spread of COVID-19 cases in the days
and weeks ahead as we begin intense testing. “Nevertheless, our resolve and commitment remain
strong and total and as we continue to urge every one of us to treat this as a
matter of life or death, our message to you remains constant: obey our
directives to stay at home and protect yourself, your family and our state from
the spread of COVID-19. There is certainly no choice on this. Staying at home
and staying safe for now is not just mandatory, it is the best available option
in the circumstance,” he said. Governor Wike added: “Our borders continue to
experience serial acts of sabotage by security operatives, who allow, and in
some cases, personally aid persons with risky COVID-19 status into the state. “As recently as yesterday, we intercepted a
lorry-load of livestock with 22 persons who bribed their ways into Rivers State
from as far as Adamawa State despite the Federal Government’s claimed
restriction on inter-state travels and our definitive closure of all entry
routes into the state. “Even today, we intercepted, yet, another 8 trucks with 200 persons hidden in loads of grains and being smuggled into the state from the northern parts of the country. Of Law, Sentiments, And Politics: Applauding The Supreme Court Verdict On The Orji Uzor Kalu Case “Indeed, the extent of sabotage was such that, even
a Deputy Commissioner of Police unilaterally appropriated and exercised powers
to illegally issue movement pass to individuals and companies indiscriminately
in utter contempt and direct violation of the lockdown orders of the State
Government,” he stressed. The Governor rewarded Rumuigbo Community with N5 million
following the role their vigilance group played in intercepting a truck that
had people hidden in it. He said: “Let me express my appreciation to the
overwhelming majority of Rivers people for complying with the “Stay at Home and
Stay Safe” orders, including the temporary closure of business outfits and
activities throughout the state. “In particular, I wish to commend the Rumuigbo
community vigilante for rising to the challenge, as any responsible community
should do, by intercepting a lorry-load of livestock with 50 persons who
illegally entered the state in violation of the lockdown orders. “For this show of courage and patriotism, the State
Government will reward the Rumuigbo community with the sum of N5, 000,000.00
only. “However, quite unfortunately, there are some
residents who have chosen to put themselves and the larger public at the risk
of infection with their irresponsible show of disobedience to our restrictions
on human and vehicular movements during the lockdown. “As a Government, a strong one for that matter, we
have the responsibility to act decisively on the side of the law to safeguard
the safety of our state and its residents. “And so, as the COVID-19 pandemic begins to graduate
and make its way through the state, these actions, inactions and
counter-actions from the the security agencies are rather amplifying the risk
of a public health disaster in our state. “From all indications, no matter what we do or try
to do to fight this battle, it is becoming clear by each day that those forces
bent on forcing COVID-19 pandemic on our state are not willing to cease their
evil plot and intentions,” he continued. The Governor said the state government would not shirk in
its duty to the people. He said the government would unleash the full and
severe weight of the law against any person or body of persons who attempt to
put themselves and other innocent people at the risk of spreading this disease
in Rivers State. He said: “While we appreciate the intervention and
plea of clemency from well-meaning Rivers citizens, it is our position not to
condone any sentiments on this matter because of the seriousness of the
situation. “What we can assure everyone is that all those
arrested for violating the relevant Executive Orders would certainly have their
day in court and due process would be the hallmark of any punishment that they
may suffer if duly convicted as prescribed by our ordinary laws. “Accordingly, the undermentioned vehicles, whose
owners have been convicted and the ownership thereof already forfeited to the
state, will duly be auctioned by the Deputy Sheriff of the State High Court:
IVICO Truck with Reg. No. KBK 336 XA; DAF Truck with Reg. No. Adanawa MUB 20
YH; HOWO Truck with Reg. No. Adamawa HNG 608 XA; DAF Truck with Regi. No. PKM
48594 XA “Truth be told, those who claim to be conveying
essential food items into the state during this period of total lockdown are
barefaced liars who are up to something more sinister. “How and who can they sell their items to when all
the markets, hotels, and business outfits in the state have been closed down?
Let all be warned that we’ll have none of such tricks in Rivers State at this
very trying period,” the governor stated. The Governor confirmed the three new cases in the state
and gave a breakdown, saying: “Unfortunately, despite our determined
efforts, the state recorded three new cases, bringing our total confirmed
COVID-19 infections to 17 as at the 7th of May 2020. “While two of the new cases were contacts of an
existing case, the third case is from the Diobu area of Port Harcourt, who has
no travel history or conceivable contact with any other contaminated person. “This situation points to two critical scenarios,
which we must pay attention to. First, the threat of COVID-19 among us, is
real, and second, the threat is growing as the number in infections and
localities continues to rise and expand,” he said. He reiterated the state’s concerns over the outrageous
actions of Rivers enemies who continue to destabilise the fight against the
spread of COVID-19 in the state.