.Prays for Dokpesi, others  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected Federal Government’s pinch in ex-depot price of fuel to N108 litre, insisting on a new pricing template that must accommodate a pump price of between N60 to N70 per litre to reflect the crash in the price of crude oil and petroleum products in the international market. The party described the N108 ex-depot price as fraudulent and a far cry from the appropriate pump price template that should not exceed N70 given the prevailing situation in the international oil market. In a statement on Thursday by party’s national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP noted that the N108 ex-depot price with a projected additional N9 per litre Expected Open Market price is therefore completely unacceptable to Nigerians. Moreover, it said that the Federal Government has continued to shroud the indices and parameters it is using in determining domestic prices of petroleum products in secrecy and that such parameters obviously cannot be in tandem with the appropriate situation in the global industry. The PDP lamented that the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government has continued to shortchange unsuspecting Nigerians since the beginning of the year by refusing to end its corrupt interferences and allow market forces to determine pump price of fuel to reflect current global prices. “Our party insists that the Federal Government has no reason to continue to fleece Nigerians particularly in the face of worsening economic crisis occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic which it had also failed to effectively handle”, said the party. The PDP demanded that the APC Federal Government should immediately reduce both the ex-depot and pump price as well as surrender the billion of naira accruable as overcharge from the inappropriate fuel pricing since the crash in crude oil price and channel the funds as palliatives to Nigerians. It charged the NNPC not to waste further time in addressing Nigerians on its confession of sleazy and over-bloated oil subsidy regime in the last five years which included a hazy under-recovery for unnamed West African countries, running into trillions of naira. Meanwhile, the party prayed for the speedy recovery of all Nigerians including High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, battling the coronavirus disease, which is currently ravaging the world. The party in a separate statement offered prayers for the founder of Daar Communication, (owners of AIT and Raypower fm), High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, and members of his family who had tested positive to the coronavirus and are now receiving care in an isolation center. The PDP noted the commendable role of the media at this critical time, particularly in sensitising Nigerians on health safety, social distancing and personal hygiene protocols in the overall effort to check the spread of the pandemic in our country. The party urged compatriots, especially the sick as well as their families, not to give up on hope and urged all citizens to continue in prayers and in supporting one another at this perilous time. It also called on Nigerians to redouble their health vigilance particularly in observing all health safety directives by our health authorities and the World Health Organisation (WHO). The PDP also commended doctors, nurses as well as other health and essential service providers for their commitment, show of patriotism and labour of love for our nation and humanity in general despite the daunting challenges.