6. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has approved the redeployment of four directors at the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). The Governor’s action followed investigation into activities of SUBEB in the last few years. The affected directors include Mr. Adanu Eigege of Social Mobilisation, Mrs. Margaret Bija of Academic Services, Messrs Ochima Ogbu and Fidelis Ikye of Planning, Research and Statistics, as well as Accounts and Finance respectively. They are to report to the office of the State Head of Service for redeployment. Governor Ortom, who announced the changes in on Wednesday after several days of deliberations on an interim report of the investigation panel, said the redeployed directors would be replaced by Mr. Emmanuel Eje, Mrs. Hembadoon Regina Nyitor, Mrs. Joy Adole and Mr. Adams Mtsugh. He, however, said Directors in-charge of Administration and Supply, Quality Assurance and Internal Audit, Mr. Terna Ayu, Mrs. Dooshima Jibo and Mr. Sunday Tov respectively retained their positions. According to him, Special Adviser on Basic Education, Mr. Matthew Mnyam was also redeployed to Ministry of Education as Special Adviser while Mr. Sarwuan Tarnongu takes over from him as Special Adviser on SUBEB, with the Principal Special Assistant on SUBEB, Mr. David Tsevende moving to Ministry of Health and Human Services. Secretary of the Board, Mr. Ben Ikwe, the governor said, had been appointed Principal Special Assistant to the Governor on SUBEB, replacing David Tsevende while Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Service Welfare, office of the Head of Service, Mr. Andrew Amee, now takes over as Board Secretary. Hon. Dennis Shemberga, who was Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on SUBEB, was also redeployed to the Social Investment office. Govenor Ortom, who directed Commissioner for Education, Professor Dennis Ityavyar, to ensure that the changes were immediately effected and feedback given to him, assured management of the board of his administration’s support to reposition SUBEB for quality primary education. He stated that decisions and changes would be effected at the end of investigations, even as he urged all to give truthful testimonies that would help unravel the rot in the system with no witch – hunting.