As part of it’s efforts to integrate digital innovations into business, Stallion group has launched a portal to improve customers experience and fastrack automobile sales in Nigeria. The portal called Stallion Africar which can also be accessed at stallionafricar.com is aimed at improving it’s innovations and provide convenience for customers amidst Covid-19 lockdown, a statement by Arpita Roy Luthra, Head of Media and Marketing at the organization has said. According to her, the portal also provides customers with large range of choices to make in line with strategic budgets. “With the onset of the lockdown in March 2020, Stallion Group has been working with the Web Developer for creating an online multi brand portal called www.stallionafricar.com . Hyundai, Honda, Nissan, Changan, Porsche has respective section in this. “It has a live chat at the bottom right  where users can chat with the Relationship Manager to experience a showroom like treatment. “Launch of their own separate portal Stallion Africar will help meet customer expectation during the COVID era. It will also provide the customers tools to take an informed decision on the choice of car in their budget and a virtual relationship manager to guide them through the chat functionality. “Also, it offers an opportunity to do cross-selling and upselling and reduce their dependence on driving walk in traffic to the point of sale.  “The simple design of Stallion Africar enables the consumer to take a decision on buying a new car and servicing their existing car. Its soon adding the feature of buying a preowned car where the consumer can get their old car evaluated and uploaded to get the best deal and exchange it for a new,” the statement explained. Furthermore, the statement added that the portal navigates through each of the top selling auto brands of Hyundai, Honda, Nissan, Porsche and Changan which also highlights models and favourites of customers. “Each brand’s highlight model is displayed on the home page with the portal navigating to a detailed page containing specification, price and the consumer’s ability to book a test drive for their favorite car just at the push of a button. “The car is brought in to your home or work place keeping the safety and hygiene measures in mind for the test drive to conform with social distancing guidelines to the maximum. “The portal allows you an access to compare features, aesthetics and price across major brands and models to arrive at what’s best for you and your family,” the statement added. Speaking further, the statement pointed out that the portal also provides for car servicing and how customers can access their car service representative from the company. “The relationship does not end at buying the ideal car. Stallion Africar’s servicing tool is designed to provide information on each brand’s service centers indicating locations across Nigeria with details pertaining to the right contact personnel for each of the locations along with their emails and phone numbers to book your service appointment and get the best quality of care for your car. “The service personnel are trained on sanitization and handling of the car affirming to the safety from COVID 19 guidelines. At grounds daily practical workshops and training are being conducted to adhere to stringent guidelines for health and safety of the customer,” It said. Stallion Group says it is marking the launch as its journey to e-commerce in line with current economica shift. The group also said the launch serves as an encouragement to the Nigerian community to experience acquiring their dream car in the era of digital technology by simply visiting the site at www.stallionafricar.com