4. .As lender reassures customers, staff of safety measures Shareholders of Fidelity Bank Plc have unanimously endorsed the payment of a cash dividend of 20k per share, which translates to N5.79 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. This is even as the lender says it will continue to take
measures that will ensure the safety of customers, staff and other stakeholders
during the period of COVID-19. The shareholders gave the approval at the bank’ 32nd
Annual General Meeting (AGM) held recently in Lagos. The bank, in a statement on Monday, stated that its
Chairman, Mr. Ernest Ebi, said the bank would remain committed to building a
sustainable business, even in the midst of the challenges associated with the
COVID-19 pandemic. The chairman said that the board, in line with its oversight responsibilities, had been meeting virtually, to strategise on new opportunity areas to cushion the impact of the pandemic and to sustain the growth trajectory of the bank in recent years. Jigawa, NGO to distribute malaria drugs to 1.3m children Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, the bank’s Chief Executive Officer,
was also quoted in the statement as saying it would explore new prospects that
were opening up in the retail market. Okonkwo said the bank would continue to focus on
customer-centricity, innovation and digitisation, whilst keeping its eye on
governance, risk and liquidity. “We place a high premium on risk management and will
continue to review our risk acceptance criteria in reaction to new market
realities,” he stated. Meanwhile, the bank has started the 2020 financial year
on a positive note with the announcement of its unaudited results for the three
months ended March 31, 2020. Gross earnings for the first quarter of the year grew by
5.7 per cent to N51.2 billion, from N48.4 billion in the previous year. Profit before tax stood at N6.6 billion, representing a
marginal drop from N6.7 billion recorded in the first quarter of 2019. Shareholders’ funds grew by 3.6 per cent to N242 billion
from N234 billion in 2019.