.Appeals to Nigerians to desist from taking undue risks .Extends ban on local, international flights by 4 weeks Worried over the rapid spread of Coronavirus disease, otherwise referred to as COVID-19 in the country, the Federal Government has revealed plans to intensify dialogue with governors on the movement of almajiri from Kano to other states. The Federal Government therefore appealed to Governors to align their plan for the movement of almajiri with the ban imposed by the President. Speaking during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja, on Wednesday, the Secretary to the government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, also appealed to Nigerians to be vigilant and desist from taking undue risks. The appeal, he said, became necessary following the flagrant disobedience to the guiding rules on the prevention of COVID-19. He said, “early assessment of the ease of lockdown phase indicate that Nigerians are yet to come to terms with the deadliness and the virulent nature of the COVID-19 and this gives us concerns on the high possibility of increased seeding of the virus to hitherto un-affected persons and populations”. The SGF listed some of the rules to include “Non-compliance with social/physical distancing guidelines evidenced by higher than advised congregation of people in banks, traffic gridlocks especially at entry points to metropolitan areas and disregard of guidelines on carrying capacity of motor vehicles. “Increased level of inter-state movements worsened by the dubious concealment of people in food carrying vehicles. “Unhygienic and ill-advised use and sharing of masks especially multiple fittings before buying from vendors”. Mustapha further said that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the extension of ban imposed on local and international flights by four weeks. This, according to him, is to check the spread of coronavirus. “Tomorrow (today) marks the last day for the enforcement of the closure of Nigeria’s airspace to flights. “We have assessed the situation in the aviation industry and have come to the conclusion that given the facts available to us and based on the advice of experts, the ban on all flights will be extended for an additional four weeks. “The Honourable minister of aviation will give you details during this briefing”, he added. On the rising tension in Gombe, the SGF said that the testing laboratory in the state will be activated soon. “We have similarly received reports about the emerging situation in Isolation Centres in Gombe circulating in a viral video clip. “We have investigated and I wish to assure you that the NCDC team is on ground in Gombe to support the State Emergency Operation Centres (EOC). “Similarly, I can confirm that the testing laboratory in Gombe will be activated soon”. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said that the ministry is encouraging and supporting states to increase the number of isolation centres nationwide. With regard to Kano, he added that progress has been made in collaboration efforts with the state EOC to restore routine medical services to hospitals and further drive the ongoing investigations.