Information Technology expert and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Bricz-May International, Engr. Bright Chibuzor, has appealed to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State to introduce electronic learning for children in the state. He commended the state government for introducing television learning to children in the state, but noted that this method was not enough. Chibuzor, in a statement made available to newsmen in Warri, said while television learning will afford the children the opportunity to continue learn during this lockdown,  maintained that electronic learning will enable the teachers and the students to interact. He said: “It dawned on me that our children are not really engaged. Yes and oh yes, the Delta State Government has done so well to introduce radio and television learning to our children which I applaud them for it is a welcome development and it suits our current times, yet it’s still not enough. “Now, comparing the radio and  television learning and our classroom learning, the former can barely engage our children as it is not a feedback learning process where you can understand if the children are following or not. However, the later engages children better and the teacher will have a better understanding if the children are following or not. “Be that as it may, here exists an existing solution which is just close to classroom learning and better than radio and television learning. This is technology driven and it is called the e-learning. It may sound expensive since the government has seriously channeled resources to other pressing country needs but the fact is that, it is cheap. I repeat, there are cheaper ways around it. “It does not require building huge online platforms, spending big money, building and maintenance cost, staffing, overhead cost, etc. It just requires employing existing tools on the internet and leverage on them. Using this means, the teachers can be in their respective homes, while the children will be at their various homes learning seamlessly. “It may not necessarily be live but the teachers can produce a tutor content and exercises while the children in their various homes, learn the created content and treat those exercises and submit to their teachers. By so doing, the teachers can rate their performances and know the area to concentrate. All these can be achieved by leveraging on free tools on the internet. No need for website design and hosting. “Now, everyone may be thinking about too much data to be spent and consume. Not really. Just an investment of 50MB per school day will do the job. As we may know it, over 50% of parents have smart devices which they can use for their children (under parental guidance and control) as everyone is at home except for a few essential workers. “This is a call for the government to embrace e-learning this challenging times. “My team and I are willing to work with the government to bring the teachers and every other stakeholder up to speed through DIY (Do It Yourself) means like tutorial videos, walking them through all the available free tools on the internet to aid their teaching process.”