The sum of $40 billion is to be invested by foreign industrialists towards establishment of an investment hub in Anambra State. The essence of this investment is to cushion the economic effects of COVID-19 and further arrest possible challenges that may arise from the effects of the pandemic in the state. This was disclosed by the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Obiano on Media and Image Management, Chika Ibeneme, during a briefing in Awka. Ibeneme said the investors would establish an Industrial Park that would accommodate housing estates, police station, school, and hospital among other economic structures, with the capacity of creating over 5000 direct and indirect jobs. Ibeneme stressed that the multifaceted investment would be situated at Mgbakwu, Ebenebe, across Ezu River axis, in Awka North Local Government Area. According to him, the $40 billion investment will be done in phases with a duration of seven years. Ibeneme, who is also a chief in his community, said the investment would boost the state’s Internally Generated Revenue, as well as the GDP of the state, geared towards making Anambra an industrial hub of the nation. “Amidst lockdwn, Governor Obiano is still striving to further strengthen the economy of the state. The investors are coming due to the security architecture Governor Obiano has attracted. “Indeed, the lockdown has brought out the best from Governor Willie Obiano. He is a man who knows the indices of managing an economy. He had prepared for for any economic challenges before he came into power. “Because of this lockdown, there are little or no economic activities. The internally generated revenue and taxes decrease, but government expenditure like salary and overhead are not lockdown. “So government continuous to make expenses without a comparable income generation factor. “In Anambra State, government activities and expenditures are on monthly basis, without adequate internally generated revenue. Workers recieve their salaries, palliatives had been distributed and so on. “Governor Obiano is able to actualise these due to strong economic structures he has put in place. “I urge everyone to support the government of Governor Willie Obiano and adhere to the COVID-19 protocols for a healthy nation. A healthy citizen dwells in a healthy nation,” Ibeneme concluded.