.EFCC kicks, returns to court I’ve learnt invaluable lessons in prison-ex-Abia Gov Facts emerged on Friday on why the Supreme Court quashed the conviction of former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor-Kalu, over corruption charges. Recall that a Federal
High Court in Lagos presided by Justice Mohammed Idris had on December 5, 2019
convicted the the former Abia State governor and other defendants for allegedly
stealing about N7.1 billion from Abia State treasury. Though reprieve came
to the former Abia State governor on Friday with the Supreme Court quashing of
his 12 years jail term, the prosecuting agency, the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission (EFCC), said it is returning to the Federal High Court immediately
to prove its case that he committed the crime. In a unanimous
decision on Friday, a seven-man panel of Justices of the Supreme Court led by
Justice Amina Augie, held that the Federal High Court in Lagos presided by a
serving Justice of Court of Appeal, Justice Mohammed Idris, acted without
jurisdiction when it convicted Kalu, his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited and former
Director of Finance in Abia State, Jones Udeogu. Supreme Court said
that trial Court Justice Mohammed Idris was no longer a judge of the Federal
High Court as at the time he sat and delivered the judgement that convicted the
defendants for allegedly stealing about N7.1 billion from Abia state treasury. According to the
Supreme Court, Justice Idris, having been elevated to the Court of Appeal
before then, lacked the powers to return to sit as a High Court Judge. It held that the Fiat
that was issued to him by the former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice
Zainab Bulkachuwa, pursuant to section 396(7) of the Administration of Criminal
Justice Act was unconstitutional. The apex court
therefore vacated the judgement that convicted the former Abia State governor
and other defendants and ordered fresh trial of the defendants by a competent
and properly constituted Federal High Court. Meanwhile, the
prosecuting agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on
Friday, said it is returning to the Federal High Court immediately to prove its
case that he committed the crime. EFCC said it
considers the judgment of the apex court “as quite unfortunate” and
“a technical ambush against the trial of the former governor”. In reaction to the
apex Court judgment, the Commission said “it is prepared for a fresh and
immediate trial of the case because its evidences against Kalu and others are
overwhelming.” It maintained that
the corruption charges against Kalu still subsist because the Supreme Court did
not acquit him of them. “The entire prosecutorial machinery of the EFCC would be launched in a fresh trial where justice is bound to be served in due course,” the anti-graft agency said. Breaking: 386 new cases of COVID-19 reported in Nigeria Reacting, former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji
Uzor Kalu, whose 12 years imprisonment was quashed by the Supreme Court on
Friday, said he has learnt invaluable lessons while in prison in the last five
months. In a statement after the Supreme Court judgment, Uzor
-Kalu said the past five months have been quite a profound period for me. “As challenging as that period has been, it has
provided me an opportunity to learn invaluable lessons about our country, our
peoples, our justice system and the true meaning of love. I mean love for
family, love for our country and love for humanity. “My experience tested and reaffirmed my belief and
confidence in our country, Nigeria. My case is a true Nigerian story with a
bold MADE-IN-NIGERIA stamp on it. It is a story of initial injustice that was
caught and ultimately corrected. It is a story of restoration. It is a story of
how a wrong was righted and how justice and truth prevailed in the end”
and it is a story of the power of hope”, he added. “My case should teach us all that even though we may
not get things right at the first attempt, with patience and dedication, we
shall get them right eventually. That is the lesson of my case and that is the
lesson of our country – that with dedication and patience, we shall place
Nigeria in its rightful place eventually”. The two term executive governor of Abia State said also
that the events of the past five months gave him an added perspective on
matters of justice and injustice in Nigeria. He added that he has realised that the course of justice
will not be complete if it stopped at his case. “It must continue until it touches the lives of millions
of Nigerians who face injustice anywhere in this world,” he said, stating that he
is “dedicating his time henceforth to ensuring there will be justice for all
Nigerians whether they are in Sokoto or Akwa Ibom or in Lagos or Maiduguri or
in Jos or Enugu, or wherever they may be. Justice for one man or for a few
people will no longer be enough in this country”. He added that a system whereby “over 70% of all
prison inmates population is made up of people awaiting trial cannot be allowed
to continue. Situations where innocent people are falsely charged with murder
just to get them out of the way does not dignify our country and cannot
continue. Justice must now mean justice for all. That is my pledge to
Nigerians.” He gave thank to his family, his colleagues, his friends,
supporters, the people of Abia State, and all Nigerians for their unflinching
and unwavering confidence and trust in him “through the very testing
period.” “We all know today that their prayers have not been
in vain. I also use this opportunity to express my gratitude to the Nigerian
Correctional Service for the unalloyed professionalism and sincere humanity
extended to me by its staff while I was in their custody.” “I must accord a special mention to the Justices of
our Supreme Court for their unwavering commitment to rule of law. We all stand
reminded of the consistent and strategic relevance of the Nigerian Supreme
Court in holding this country together, even in moments of great peril. ” As far back as in the 1971 case of LAKANMI V.
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE FEDERATION, (the Ademola Adetokunbo-led Court), the
Nigerian Supreme Court has severally rescued this country from the precipice.
Also throughout the dark era of military rule in Nigeria, the Supreme Court
neither wavered nor flinched in its commitment to justice and fairness,” he
stated. He said that despite some moments of distraction and mass
hysteria, the Nigerian Supreme Court has remained the veritable compass to the
highest ideals of justice attainable in this country. “This long tradition of the court was exemplified in
today’s judgment. I was humbled by the court’s boldness and sense of justice as
shown in my case,” he concluded.