…Buhari’s incompetence responsible for spread of virus in Nigeria – PDP …No, President setting transparency standard beyond PDP imagination, says BMO The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), on Sunday, traded words over the handling of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country by President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government. While the PDP blamed the failure to check the spread of COVID-19 in country on alleged manifest incompetence of the Buhari Presidency as well as President Muhammadu Buhari’s lack of visibility and failure to personally lead from the front, the BMO said that President Buhari is setting a standard in transparency and integrity with the handling of COVID-19 funds that the opposition PDP is finding difficult to comprehend. The PDP lamented that the alarming increase in infection and mortality rates in Nigeria would have been curtailed if the nation had a competent, proactive and transparent leadership with the capacity to articulate a quick national response to the pandemic. The party noted that the situation had been worsened by greedy and corrupt All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders and the cabal in the Presidency, who are cashing in on President Buhari’s ineffectiveness to pillage resources meant for the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in the country. These concerns were expressed in a statement on Sunday by PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. The PDP described as distressing that “since the outbreak of the pandemic in Nigeria, the President had not demonstrated the desired visibility; addressed the nation only thrice (each time, after much prodding), after which he had remained out of public visibility, leading to lack of effective coordination of the fight against the pandemic. “Moreover, President Buhari has failed to act on wise suggestions by well-meaning Nigerians, particularly on administration of palliatives and production of homegrown therapeutics. “Since the third recorded broadcast, Mr. President had receded into the safety of the Aso Presidential Villa, leaving his inept aides to continue to issue disjointed claims and uncoordinated directives”. The party asked Nigerians to note that President Buhari’s failure to make himself visible and personally lead from the front had resulted in the failure to develop a strong all-inclusive and seamless national response against the pandemic; leading to diverse responses by various states and a consequent spike in spread and mortality rates. The party said “President Buhari had woefully failed to spur and lead a strong teamwork of federal, state governments and the organised private sector for a proactive response that would have checked the spread of the pandemic in our country. It also observed that “President Buhari’s backseat approach had also encouraged the reckless pillaging of COVID-19 palliatives by his officials, leaving majority of poor and vulnerable Nigerians unattended to; a principal factor responsible for the general poor compliance to lockdown directives in major cities. The PDP lamented that “given that Mr. President is working from a blind spot due to his narrow involvement in the fight, his reopening of the economy without any post-lockdown stimulus had further worsened the situation as the resultant economic stampede had led to massive violation of health safety and social distancing protocols. ‘”Furthermore, our party holds that Mr. President’s failure is also responsible for our nation’s inability to rally indigenous researchers, manufactures, virologists and healers for homegrown solutions, which would have arrested the situation in our country. “Rather, the Buhari Presidency is laidback, waiting for foreign solutions while the pandemic ravages our nation. “Moreover, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 had been bogged down by political parochialism and abysmal corruption for which it is shutting out our known experts from coming in to assist our nation with solutions at this critical time”. The party therefore called on President Buhari to accept failure, wake up to the realities of the pandemic and justify his huge upkeep with national resources by personally leading in this fight as Nigerians will never accept any eventual resort to scapegoatism by his Presidency. Meanwhile, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari is setting a standard in transparency and integrity with the handling of COVID-19 funds that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is finding difficult to comprehend. This, according to the group, is why the party and its members have been speaking about a non-existing plan to misuse the fund. In a statement signed by its Chairman Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Cassidy Madueke, BMO said PDP was used to sharing public funds under different subheads in its 16-year long misrule. “Nigerians have seen how the former ruling party had, in recent times, been issuing statements on the donations and technical support the country has been receiving from individuals and groups, as well as from donor agencies. “We see it as an unnecessary fixation on the funds to the point of salivating over the billions of naira going through a few designated bank accounts into a centralised account (Treasury Single Account) in the Central Bank. “We invite Nigerians to note how $2.1bn set aside for arms purchase at the height of the war against insurgency were authorised to be shared through the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) to certain party elements. “Then was the 2015 election bribery scandal in which public funds running into N32bn were shared by former Petroleum Resources Minister Diezani Allison-Madueke, to PDP members and senior electoral officials, according to court documents. “And discerning Nigerians have not forgotten how this same party twice raised a total of N27bn for its national secretariat but the fund practically developed wings. “These are the things that the former ruling party is known for, so it is proper to conclude that its members would look at the list of donors and wonder how the funds would be spent indiscriminately. It is simply a case of misery seeking company. “We make bold to say that it is about leadership and that is why the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) will issue an expenditure framework for all COVID-19 funds that bars indiscriminate spending while the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Offences Commission (ICPC) has also announced its own guidelines on the management of funds in line with the Public Procurement Act of 2007. “These are safeguards that are not known in the PDP era that made public funds a free-for-all bazaar for party chieftains,” the statement added. BMO also hailed individuals and corporate organisations, as well as donor agencies that have been making donations and offering technical support to Nigeria. The group assured Nigerians that the President will do everything possible to mitigate the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 on the country.