A Nigerian man has alleged that his pregnant sister who died immediately after child birth was killed by her husband after he abused her while she was heavily pregnant. The man identified as Prince Iyase Kelvin took to Facebook to report the alleged domestic abuse. He stated that the abuse was so much that his late sister’s family had to retrieve her from him, of which he later came to apologize. He was alleged to have damaged her uterus as a result of the constant beatings she received from him. According to Prince, my late sister was a victim of an abusive marriage. A lot of friends have been asking me what really happened to my sister.. There you go, this man on the picture is the reason behind her death… The shortest summary I can give goes thus; This man turned his wife to a punching bag for reasons best known to him, to the point that our family had to retrieve my sister and her two kids from him One would have thought that my sister would take that as a relief, but no love kept finding it’s way back, she will go as far as clandestinely frolicking with him and along the line she conceived her third and last child. Sometimes last year, this man came in company of his family and pastor begging to have his wife back, he won’t molest her ever again, and so my sister agreed joyously to go back to her sweet hubby not knowing that she won’t get another chance at redemption. This woman beater now killer, still beat my pregnant sister mercilessly again, hitting her stomach, to the point that unknown to her, the beating had affected her UTERUS, in no distant time precisely( 2 days ago) , my sis entered emergency labour and was booked for a cesarean section (CS) The baby was successfully out, that’s when complications arising from the internal injuries she had suffered started, the rest is an history too painful to even talk about, and she died eventually.. I’m sharing this personal story basically because i know that amongst those who will read this post, are ladies definitely going through this inhumane act of abuse in relationship/marriage… This may be your last chance to leave that beast now before it is too late.. As a man, if your woman or wife does the height of unforgivable thing to you, please send her back to her parents, you paid bride price, didn’t pay for her life. READ ALSO Trump takes his war on masks to new lows As for this guy on the picture, i congratulate you my brother because you don win award.