The national agency for the prohibition of trafficking in persons has decried the increasing cases of r.a.p.e, incest and domestic abuse among Nigerians during the stay-at-home order due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The NAPTIP Director-General, Julie Okah-Donli, said this in an interview with journalists in Abuja during the distribution of palliatives to orphanages and other partners of the agency operating shelters for trafficked victims. The palliatives were donated by the Alumni Association of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Plateau State, to the Federal Capital Territory Administration, which thereafter gave the items to NAPTIP. Okah-Donli said the latest case recorded was a man in Abuja who raped his four-year-old daughter and was caught and reported by his wife. She said, “Domestic and sexual abuses have been crazy. The cases are increasing. I think some men are suffering from cabin fever. They are not used to staying at home with their wives. So the more their wives are in their faces, the more they get angry and beat them up. We recorded over 30 cases during a certain period.“Even rape, sodomy; the last we got was a father who raped his four-year-old daughter and was caught by his wife. We have had many dirty cases recently. We cannot keep the suspects in custody because of Covid-19. “They have been granted bail but as soon as we can prosecute them, we will start to do that.” Okah-Donli said the relief items were donated to them by the FCTA, adding “and we gave them out to seven of our partners. This gesture will continue as we get more from the authorities.” The AANI Vice-President, Hajiya Aisha Dankani, said the palliatives included bags of 10kg rice, 500 packets of noodles and 30 packets each containing 50 bottles of cooking oil. She said, “We have chosen the FCT, Lagos and Kano as the first three states to reach out to. We hope that God will see us through this pandemic period. READ ALSO Ex-NYSC director-general Edet Akpan is dead “We believe the lockdown has otherwise affected a number of vulnerable Nigerians and for the first batch, we have selected these three states.