Five friends, Toheeb Popoola, Ibrahim Ridwan, Mutiu Tijani, Akeem Ishola and Lawal Afeez, have found themselves in police net for beating a 25-year-old man, Monsur Kareem, to death. The suspects arrested by men of the Ogun state Police Command, had attacked the deceased following a minor misunderstanding at Ijoko area of the state. According to a statement by the Ogun state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, the father of the deceased, Najeem Kareem, reported the matter at the Sango Police Division. The statement reads: “The suspects were arrested following a report by the father of the deceased, one Najeem Kareem, who reported at Sango Police Station, that his son was beaten to coma by the suspects following a minor misunderstanding he had with Toheeb Popoola. “He was rushed to the hospital, but was confirmed dead by the doctor. Upon his report, the Divisional Police Officer, Godwin Idehai, led detectives to the scene at Ijoko area where the five suspects were apprehended. “Preliminary investigation revealed that while a landlord in the area was coming in his tricycle loaded with kegs of water, he fell down with the kegs of water and while picking those kegs, Popoola whose house was situated in the place came out to question him for his reason of staying there. “This led to an argument between them and it was at that point the deceased met them and tried to intervene. “His intervention did not go down well with Popoola, who invited the other four suspects to the scene and ordered them to beat both the deceased and the tricyclist up. “In the process, the deceased was rushed to the hospital where he was confirmed dead. The corpse of the deceased has been deposited at Ifo General Hospital Mortuary for autopsy. ” The police spokesman said the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.