.Urges workers to acquire relevant digital skills The  Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) has said there is an urgent need for managers of the nation’s economy to make a conscious and deliberate effort in creating a  robust economy that will enhance the effective participation of all and  improve the per capita income of our current population in the shortest time possible. In a statement signed by the National President of the association,
Comrade Ndukaku  Ohaeri said, there is no gainsaying the fact that a
nation cannot develop above the capacity of its human capital. “The prospects of a great Nigeria lie squarely in the
kind of education we give our citizens. Time has come for Government at all
levels to pay close attention to the human capital development of the citizenry
without which sustainable development will remain a mirage. It has become
crystal clear that quality education is essential for rethinking the future of
work in the 21st century.” “Lack of digital skills continues to amplify the digital
divides as more and more jobs are increasingly requiring some level of digital
skills. In this context, equipping children and our young population with the
skills required to enter the job market has become more necessary than ever.
Governments, institutions, and industry must prioritize skills development and
training around this area to empower youths for the digital economy” He further explains, “Preparing youngsters for
lifetime opportunities will involve helping them to understand the rapid
evolution of technology better and how to adapt their skills to the different
scenarios. Skills for life need to be better incorporated into the curricula
not only to make for the understanding of technology but also to help them on
all spheres of life. Some of these skills include assertive communication,
perspective-taking, emotional intelligence, and critical thinking.” “The importance of critical thinking as a tool that will
help youth to better prepare for the future, cannot be over-emphasized as it
remains a key tool that will enable them to better understand emergent
technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and machine learning. This will
create opportunities for them to fit into the emerging world of work that will
shape the future economies of the world. “The future of work in Nigeria can only be truly assured
when our young population today and indeed the citizenry are deliberately
empowered with requisite skills that will make them more of job creators than
job seekers, even in the process of their education. Elements of this should be
abundantly incorporated into the school curriculum from primary to university
education levels. Our education system must be such that help to create new
businesses and business leaders with new ideas to solve human problems thereby
creating work for our ever-growing population.” According to him, the theme of this year’s May Day Celebration
is “60 Years of Nationhood; Insecurity, Wage, Poverty and the Future of Work in
Nigeria”. “This theme is significant in many respects, especially now that
the Nations will be faced with the harsh effects of the COVID-19
pandemic.” He urged the federal government, the employers to come
together and look at the best possible ways to deal with the issues that we
have now. 

“We
must all do our best at this time for there is no better time to collaborate
than now.”