US President Donald Trump
 Friday said he hoped a COVID-19 vaccine would be available by the end 
of the year, and announced he was appointing a former pharmaceutical 
executive to spearhead the effort. “We are looking to get it by 
the end of the year if we can, maybe before,” Trump said, as he 
delivered an update on the race for a vaccine. “We think we are going to have some very good results 
coming out very quickly,” he told reporters in the Rose Garden of the 
White House. The timeline projected by Trump is more optimistic than what Europe foresees. The European Medicines Agency said Thursday a vaccine could be ready in a year’s time under an “optimistic scenario.” Trump
 announced he would appoint Moncef Slaoui, the former head of GSK 
Vaccines, and four star army general Gustave Perna, to lead “Operation 
Warp Speed.” “My administration is providing roughly $10 billion  to support a medical research effort without parallel,” the president  said, comparing the effort with the Manhattan Project during World War 2  that led to the development of nuclear weapons. Will Smith gets back in rap game for Joyner Lucas’ tribute remix Trump added that 
when a vaccine was ready the military would be enlisted to distribute it
 — and evoked a spirit of global cooperation. “We are working together with many different countries, and again we have no ego,” he said. “Whoever
 gets it, we think it is great, we are going to work with them and 
they’re going to work with us. If we get it, we’ll be working with 
them.” Scientists have cautioned that it is possible that despite 
worldwide efforts, it is possible that an effective vaccine may never be
 found — or that some vaccines could backfire and make people more, not
 less, susceptible to infection. Trump also sought to temper expectations. “Again, it is not solely vaccine based,” he said. “Other
 things have never had a vaccine and they go away. So I don’t want 
people to think this is all dependent on a vaccine, but a vaccine would 
be a tremendous thing.” Scientists have never previously developed a successful vaccine for any kind of coronavirus that infects humans. Efforts
 that were underway against the SARS coronavirus were halted early 
because that disease was contained after infecting about 8,000 people, 
and it was therefore not judged profitable to pursue. Vaccines do 
exist for animal coronaviruses, for example a type of coronavirus that 
infects chickens — and this is used by farmers. However, it also kills a certain percentage of chickens, and such an outcome would not be acceptable in humans.