Leading Nigerian agribusiness company, Notore Chemical Industries Plc, has cushioned the socio-economic effects of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Rivers State, with the donation of truckloads of food items and relief materials to its host communities in the state and the Rivers State Government. The Group Managing Director of Notore Chemical Industries Plc, Mr. Onajite Okoloko, who was represented by the company’s Group Chief Technical Officer, Bode Agagu, presented the donation to the Secretary to the Rivers State Government, Dr. Tammy Danagogo, in Port Harcourt, as part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the wake of the pandemic. According to Notore, “In line with our mission to enhance the quality of life and assist in cushioning the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequential lockdown in Rivers State, we have supported the Rivers State Government with relief materials. This also is complemented by donation of food relief items directly to Notore’s local host communities in Alode, Koniju, and Onne.” “In addition to the donation of food items, we also embarked on community awareness campaigns to sensitize the people on the severity of the pandemic and urged them to stay cautious,” the company added. The distribution of food items to Notore’s host communities held in the different communities and ran from May 1 to May 5, 2020, to ensure even distribution of the materials to the most vulnerable members of the communities. Branded T-shirts displaying COVID-19 safety and prevention measures were also shared among members of the community. Paramount Ruler of Alode community, His Royal Highness (HRH) Emere (Dr.) D. O. N. Awala, received the items on behalf of his community. Chairman of the Community Development Committee of Alode, Elder E. N. Saloka, acknowledged receipt of the items and expressed appreciations to Notore. In Koniju, the materials were presented to Chief Tamuno Akaluogbo, the Chief of Staff to the King. More packages were also delivered to the King, HRM King Nelson Atubo Oputibeya XI Amanyanabo of Koniju. For Onne community, the official presentation ceremony of the items held at the Notore Plant Complex. The materials were presented to representatives of the four clans that make up the community — Ogoloma, Agbeta, Ekara and Alejor – for onward distribution to their respective clans.