Nigeria’s Manufacturers CEO’s Confidence Index (MCCI) for the
first quarter of 2020 has dipped to 44.4 points from 51.9 points recorded in
the fourth quarter of 2019, indicating a 7.5 points decline over the period. The report which is collated quarterly by the Manufacturers
Association of Nigeria (MAN) aims at measuring changes in macroeconomic trends,
operating environment and selected diffusion factors relevant to the
manufacturing sector. The survey showed that, “the 7.5-point decline in the
index for the quarter meets expectation as most manufacturing sectoral groups
greatly slowed down production while others were barely resuming full
operations after the holidays when the impact of the outbreak of pandemic on
the global value chain and the cloud of uncertainty intensified. “This was the scenario for the significant part of the
quarter that ushered in the lockdown regime. The huge decline in the index
underscores a near-collapse of the manufacturing sector and a resounding vote
of low confidence in the economy from manufacturers.” “By examining the components of the aggregate index, the
indexes of Current Business Condition in Q1 2020 fell to 46.56 points from 55.6
points recorded in Q4 2019. “Index of Business condition for the next three months
also fell to 48.6 points from 60.1 points of Q4 2019; Likewise, Current
Employment Condition recorded 35.7 points in Q1 2020 as against 36.2 points in
Q4 2019. “Furthermore
 employment condition in the next 3 months
fell to 41.4 points in Q1 2020 from 42.8 points recorded in Q4 2019; 
similarly,
the index of production for the next 3 months fell to 49.8 points in the
 quarter under review from 64.7 points recorded in Q4 2019. “Meaning all diffusion indexes and the aggregate index
fell below the 50 points thresholds for meaningful performance.” It also showed that the manufacturing sector was in a
precarious state and required a lifeline to recover fully from the impact of
the outbreak of the COVID-19, a respiratory disease caused by the new
coronavirus. The association urged the government to declare a state of
emergency in the manufacturing sector of Nigeria in order to be acquainted with
the status of the sector and craft strategies for quick recovery backed with
sustainable stimulus packages. “Establish a special bailout fund for the manufacturing
sector with set deliverables on the number of jobs to be created, the volume of
export, the quantum of locally raw materials utilized and projected revenue.” The association also called on the government to reduce the
financial pressure on companies occasioned by the lockdown, necessitated by the
government’s measure to contain COVID-19, by providing 60 per cent of
employees’ salaries for at least three months to prevent the retrenchment of
workers. “Support
 manufacturing concerns with existing loan
facilities by reviewing the terms, especially reducing interest rates to
 5 per cent with 2years moratorium. For manufacturers that are investing
 in order to scale
up production should be granted loans at 5 per cent interest rate for a 
period of 5 to
7 years. This measure will no doubt improve liquidity and ramp up 
productivity
in the manufacturing sector in a manner that will cover up for obvious 
losses
due to COVID-19.” The MCCI also said that the government should sustain the
implementation of the backward integration policy by properly funding relevant
institutions, giving utmost priority attention to the development of local
raw-materials in commercial quantity and creating a friendlier environment for
investment on the value-chains of these materials that are not locally
available.” “Prevail on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to extend
its COVID-19 Stimulus packages to manufacturers not covered by existing CBN
initiatives. The CBN should also grant manufacturers increased access to
Foreign Exchange at pre-COVID-19 rate to support the importation of raw
materials, machines and spares that are not available locally. “ “Direct all Regulatory Agencies, especially Standards
Organizations of Nigeria (SON), National Agency for Food and Drugs
Administration & Control (NAFDAC) to reduce their respective administrative
charges (Pre-COVID-19 rates) payable by manufacturing concerns by 50%,”
the report said.