.Recount operations, eventual arrest .’We were promised
huge financial benefits’ Nine members of the high profile International terrorist group, Jama’atu Ansarul Muslimeena fii Bilaa dis Sudan, responsible for the kidnap of expatriates, and other influential personalities in northern Nigeria, have revealed how they were recruited from mosques, and trained in Libya. The suspects arrested
by the Inspector – General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT), were
smoked out of their hideouts in Kaduna, Zaria, Funtua, Kano and Katsina states. According to the
suspects, the terrorist group whose membership spreads across all the northern
states, and many African countries, presents itself as an Islamic group
fighting a just cause, but after accepting their membership, recruits are
presented with the sad reality of being a criminal gang. A senior police
source, who was a member of the team that tracked the suspects, said the gang
had an operation base at Birnin Gwari Bush. The source, whose
identity cannot be disclosed, revealed that the gang was responsible for the
kidnap of two expatriates, Zaid Alas from Jordan and Isah Jabour, a Syrian,
both working with Traicta Ltd, at Shiroro in Niger State, in December 2019, and
collected N120 million ransom. The terrorist gang
led by their leaders, Dogo Gide and Mahmud, both at large, were also
responsible for the kidnap for ransom of some employees of Mothercat
Construction Company, as well as the kidnap of Magajin Garin Daura in Katsina
State. The identities of the
arrested suspects were given as Aminu Mustapha (alias China), 23, Aminu Saidu
(alias Dawud), 26, Aminu Shuaibu (alias Abu Mus’an), 33, Ishak Khalid (alias
Uztaz), 30, Yusuf Abubakar (alias AY), 24, Awal Umar Tela, 34, Abubakar Isah
Muhammad (alias Khalifa Abu Aisara), 25, Shuaibu Ahmadu, 25, and Abubakar
Mustafa (alias Osama), 32. The source said: “The
gang led by Dogo Gide and Mahmud kidnapped two expatriates working at Traicta
Ltd, Shiroro in Niger State. The deadly group collected N120 million ransom.
All gang members were given between N200, 000 and N300, 000 each, as part of
their share of the ransom. “The suspects are also helping operatives of IRT to track and arrest other gang members that are still at large especially their gang leaders as well as their armourer, one Aliyu Sokoto and Mus’ab who sent threat email to Triacta Ltd, and was also negotiating with the Managing Director of the Company, on how N50 million will be paid to them yearly for the group to stop kidnapping the company’s expatriates. Never give up, never despair, Queen tells Britons “A total of 204
rounds of AK47 Live ammunitions, military uniforms, and operational vehicles
including a Volkswagen Golf car, drugs and foodstuff meant to be conveyed to
their gang members in the bush, and charms were recovered from the suspects.
Investigation continues. Serious efforts are in progress to arrest the
remaining members.” Speaking on how he
became a member of the gang in 2015, Shuaibu, who hails from Kastina, said he
was brainwashed and persuaded into believing the group was an Islamic group,
with a good cause. Shuaibu, who was
trained to treat sick and injured members of the gang, said he was promised
good financial benefit to join, and that was what enticed him. He said: “Currently,
I am 29-year-old. I am not married and I refused to marry early because I
wanted freedom to make money first. I dropped out of school due to financial
problems and was surviving by doing menial jobs till I was able to raise money
and bought a small golf car which I was using for taxi business. Normally I
make as much as N5, 000 a day and this is the job that I have been doing for
years even as a member of Ansarul. “It was sometime in
2015 that I met one Mamoud in the mosque and after each prayer we will hang out
and discuss about life. I was a member of the Izala Muslim movement and we
normally gather for prayers and to listen to lectures from the Imam. He was the
one that told me about Ansarul and that I will make more money if I become a
member. He explained to me that we are fighting the cause of Allah, and that I
will also have the opportunity to travel to Libya. I was also happy to join
them because I believe that they are not like Boko Haram group that was busy
killing fellow Muslims. “It was the
excitement of going to Libya that convinced me to join them. As soon as I met
Maitukwane, the leader of the group in Nigeria, he asked me to join the medical
team. This was how I was trained as doctor in the camp. My duty was to attend
to the sick and wounded. I know that they kidnap people regularly as a way to
make money since government does not allow them to operate freely. We were
operating freely before army and police operatives scattered all of us and we
went deeper into the forest. It’s only some of us who still had our families
outside that were moving around town undercover.” Shuaibu, who was sent
to Libiya to assist members of the Ansarul group fighting against the then
Libyan government, said he earned N50, 000 every three months as wage for his
contributions to the battle in Libya. He continued: “Three
years ago, I was one of the members who were drafted to go to Libya and assist
them in fighting against their government. It was Ahmdumahid who was in-charge
of our own group in Kaduna that sent five us to Libya at the same time. On
getting to Libya, I was drafted to work at their clinic. “The Ansarul group in
Libya were under serious attack from their government, and a lot of them were
wounded. During my spare time, I normally go to the field to learn how to
become a professional sniper. We were not sent there to make money, all they
did was to give us N50,000 every three months as allowance. “We all went there
with the belief that we are fighting a good cause. We were not the only
Nigerians that were sent to Libya that time, different sects came from
different areas in Nigeria to assist them. I spent about a year in Libya before
I was asked to return because our camp in Nigeria needed my skills as a
‘doctor’.” On how he became
‘doctor’, Shuaibu said that he never attended a medical school but was trained
by a professional doctor. “We have members who
are professional doctors. They normally come from the city to the bush to
attend to the wounded if the need arise. It became risky because they could be
caught by Nigerian government. “This was why they
took few of us to the doctor, to teach us the job. I do not know his name, we
all call him doctor. I spent about two months with him and learnt the job. I
can stitch open cuts, attend to deep wound and remove bullets. To help the
wounded to recover, I normally give them Tramadol injection and Chlorophenical
injection. If the matter is so bad, I will call the doctor for advice. “I also attend to
victims who are sick and during my spare time, I teach other new converts. I
never knew that police were after me despite how careful I was. In my area,
they know me as the taxi driver. I was surprised when I received a message to
collect money from one of our sponsors, only to walk into the trap set by the
police. I am sorry and will like to be given an opportunity to leave the
group.” Making confessional
statement, Saidu claimed his father who is also a member of the group, forced
him into joining the group after he withdrew him from secondary school at age
17. The 26-year-old said:
“I was 17, and in my final year in school when my father summoned me and said
that I had to withdraw from school. I attended Government College Kaduna. My
mother knew about it but she was more interested in keeping her marriage than
saving my future. Since she did not object, I had no choice but to follow my
father’s instruction. My father was a confirmed member of the Ansarul group
before police arrested him and took him. “As soon as I was
converted in 2015, I was sent to Libya for training. I was supposed to be in
the field, so my training was more of how to survive during war. They told us
that if we were trained in Libya, we will experience real fighting between
government and our members. I was there for just six months before I had an
accident. I was driving our operational jeep when I unknowingly fell into a
ditch. Two of my fingers were cut off, and they said that I could not continue
with my training. So I was sent back home. “Back in Nigeria, I
was told to go and learn how to sow cloth that I will be staying in town to
assist them when the need arises.  I had
to learn how to sow cloth, so that no one will suspect that I belong to that
group. They will send money to my account and I will help to buy the thing they
need to survive in the bush.” On how to stop the
activities of the terrorist organisations, Sadiu advised that police should
concentrate on arresting their leaders. “Initially, they told
us that we were fighting against non-Muslims but I realised that majority of
the people that we kidnapped are Muslims. I have not achieved anything and the
worst of it all is that I can no longer go back to school. “I will like to leave
that group but if the leaders are still alive, they will order that I be
killed. Let the police arrest all our leaders and others will scatter. If not
they are wasting their time because they are busy visiting the mosques and
converting more persons. If we die, they will replace us.” Saidu’s younger
brother, Mustapha, who is also a member of the gang, said they were promised
houses in Abuja and millions of naira, when they defeat the Nigerian
government. He said: “I am 21,
and Sahid is my elder brother. We are from Kaduna State and was in the same
college when my father forced us to drop out of school. I was 16-year-old, and
they said that I was too young to go to Libya. My father handed me over to one
Mammoud, who taught me how to shoot and drive their operational vehicle. My job
was to run errands till I am of age to travel abroad for training. “I normally assist
them to buy food and sometimes watch over the people that were kidnapped. When
I was converted, they told us that we are fighting against Nigerian government.
They made us believe that when we take over Nigeria, our families will become
millionaires and own houses in Abuja. I was placed on N100, 000 monthly
allowance to stay in town and be running errands. It was also my responsibility
to collect arms from our members in Sokoto. “I will collect as
much as possible and take it to the bush. We do not pay our arms supplier,
because everybody is working towards winning the war. Sometimes, they give me
money to give him as gift. Last year, when police arrested my father, I swore
that I will not join the group again because I knew that police was also
looking for me. After some months, I became broke, so I decided to return to
the group. “I am sorry and I
wish that my father did not withdraw us from school. I wanted to become a
doctor and will still like to go back to school if given the opportunity. I do
not know how police will end the activities of the group because we are
everywhere.”