Pastor Chris Oyakhilome has called out pastors who support the continuous closure of churches despite ease on lockdown around the nation as Nigeria battles with the deadly COVID-19. While preaching in his church recently, Oyakhilome said the government held meetings with several pastors and leaders of churches to seek their opinion before going ahead with the lockdown. He said the clergymen should have told the government to allow them go and pray against the disease first before agreeing to the lockdown. According to Oyakhilome, Christ was never truly the lord of these set of clergymen. He alleged that most of them agreed to the lockdown because of the compensation they received from the government. In different cities, countries, states, before the government went ahead with the lockdown, they held meetings with pastors, leaders of churches. Why did the pastors and leaders not say give us a few days to go and pray? Because they were not prayerful before. Hearing such a thing as Ministers of God and you are called for such a meeting, you couldn’t say give us a few days and you would call the Ministers and say this is what we just heard from the government authorities and we need to pray. We have asked them to give us three days. Then you would have seen the hand of God. But you weren’t thinking about the father’s house. Do you know what it is for you to shut down the congregations of the lord? Do you know what that means? It never meant anything to you, that is why. And there were pastors and Ministers that were sending strong warnings to others not to venture entering the church because of the virus. This is because Christ has never truly being your lord. You have been the master of your life. You have never truly known him” he said He also said that what the government plans to have ”COVID-19 compliant church”, which he described as a church where people with the virus cannot come to worship and seek their healing from God and where people must be tested for the virus before they can enter the church. READ ALSO  Israel further eases coronavirus lockdown measures Oyakhilome also expressed doubts in claims that a vaccine for the ravaging virus will be ready in June.