11. The Director-General, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr Garba Abari, on Friday urged Nigerian workers to ensure increased commitment to duty. Abari, in a goodwill message to Nigerian workers to mark
the 2020 Workers Day, said the need for such commitment has further been
underlined by the COVID-19 pandemic. “Workers need to be more committed to their duties in
order to achieve greater productivity that would be required to re-activate the
economy after COVID-19,’’ he urged in a statement signed by the agency’s Head
of Press Unit, Mr Paul Odenyi. He restated the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic has
greatly affected the world’s economy, and pointed out that returning it to a
better state would require a lot. “The full strength, energy and initiative of the working
class would be required to be able to return the Nigerian economy to its normal
level and even ensure growth in the near future. “So, whether working from the office or from home,
Nigerian workers should bring their expertise to bear in their various
organisations and industries to ensure the eradication of the virus in our
country.” Abari also urged Nigerian workers to justify the
confidence reposed in them and the goodwill shown to them by President
Muhammadu Buhari in the recent implementation of the new minimum wage. “They can do this by rising to the occasion at this time
when the nation needs them most.’’ Abari, while saluting the doggedness and sacrifice of
medical personnel and other frontline workers in the fight against the COVID-19
pandemic, said the disease could only be contained in Nigeria by Nigerians. “In the days ahead, the current situation will call for
greater sacrifice and dedication from Nigerian workers to whom our dear nation
has given a lot. “There is no better time to manifest our patriotism as
workers than in these difficult times. “As we pay our respects to workers who have made the
ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty fighting COVID-19, we also pray for
their repose and the consolation of their families. “We must urge other workers not to relent in giving their
best in service for the safety of the ones we love and for the sake of our dear
nation,” the NOA director-general said.