The International Finance Corporation (IFC), said it had firmed up arrangements with The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) on capacity building and Certification programme on Sustainable Banking in Nigeria The ERSM Nigeria Programme Coordinator,
International Finance Corporation (IFC), and a Panelist, Mr Ibrahim Salau,
made the call at an Advocacy Dialogue Webinar, organised by the Centre for
Financial Studies (CFS) of The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN)
in Lagos. The
 CIBN Advocacy Dialogue, Series 2.0, was
centred around the theme COVID 19: “Enhanced Sustainable Banking (ESB)
Model in the Event of Major Economic and Business Disruptions’. The 
programme was chaired by the Deputy Governor, Financial Systems 
Stability
Directorate, Central Bank of Nigeria, Mrs. Aishah N. Ahmad, FCIB, while 
Mrs.
Mosun Belo-Olusoga, HCIB, Former Chairman, Access Bank Plc/Lead
Consutant/Chief Marketing Officer, The Knowledge & Resource Centre 
(KRC)
Limited was the guest speaker. Other speakers at the event were; Mr. Simon
Thompson, Chief Executive, Chartered Bankers Institute, UK; Mr. Jibril Aku,
FCIB, Vice Chairman, Board of Directors, FMDQ Group; Mr. Ibrahim Salau,
ERSM Nigeria Programme Coordinator, International Finance Corporation (IFC)
while Mr. Femi Awoyemi, Founder/Chairman, Proshare Nigeria Ltd was the
moderator. Mr. Ibrahim Salau, Environmental and Social
Risk Management (ESRM) Nigeria Programme Coordinator, International Finance
Corporation (IFC) said the objective of the program is to increase the
uptake of E&S standards by FIs in the Sub-Saharan Africa region leading to
a reduction in risk exposure for FIs and an improvement in the E&S
performance of their clients in the long term. He also said the program partner’s with
financial services regulators and industry associations to raise awareness on
the business case for E&S risk management in the financial sector,
provide technical support on the development of mandatory E&S risk
management standards for the financial sector and build capacity to supervise
the implementation of the standards Mr. Salau also stated that the curriculum for
the certification programme has been approved by the CIBN Governing
Council and the course will be launched later this year. He added that a
Training of Trainers (TOT) on Sustainable Banking will kick off next week with
over 100 participants. Mrs. Aishah N. Ahmad, FCIB, Deputy Governor,
Financial Systems Stability Directorate, Central Bank of Nigeria and
Chairman of the event, in her address stated that ‘Banking has been
undergoing disruptions before the pandemic. Technological disruptions and
competition has made banks change their business model. Given that Banks have
been evolving overtime they are in a better position to weather the
current storm. “Banks can only manage these challenges
if at this destructive event that is happening, they can fortify their big
models and become more agile to respond to what’s happening in the market.
And over 80 Per cent of banks have incorporated sustainable banking principles
in their model.” she said. Mrs. Mosun Belo-Olusoga, HCIB, Former
Chairman, Access Bank Plc/Guest speaker in her presentation stated that the
implications of the pandemic on the Nigerian economy include a rise in
inflation, decline in investment such as FPI and FDI, a shrink in forex income,
drop in oil revenue and a contraction in GDP which would all in turn lead to a
fall in the value of the currency She also expressed that some of the
implications for the banking sector includes restrain on financial performance,
movement of businesses to digital space, likely changes to board
procedures and effectiveness, likely fall in Capital Adequacy Ratio below
regulatory limit, decline in cashflow from loan repayment, increased fraud and
cyber threats as a result of relaxed internal control etc She said that ‘we don’t know when life will
get back to normal, there is more pressure than ever for organisations to
innovate and think outside the box. The good news is that financial
institutions that step up to meet these challenges will benefit from a brand
and shareholder perspective’. “The Covid-19 pandemic brought to fore
the critical linkages between the environment, human health and the overall
economy, she said. Mr. Simon Thompson stated that our priorities
have changed as most policies are focused on health and economic emergencies. It’s
therefore not unexpected that climate change and sustainable banking has taken
a backward seat and one of the major problems we have in Sustainable Banking
Finance is the lack of Realistic Carbon Pricing while Mr. Aku said that a
liquidity support is necessary for Microfinance banks The fact that the industry had been evolving
itself puts the banks in a better position to weather