Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr. Olamilekan Adegbite, says the ministry is working with the country’s judiciary to prosecute foreign illegal miners caught recently in Zamfara and Osun states. Adegbite made this disclosure at a news conference on
Friday in Abuja, adding that such action would serve as a deterrent to others. He said it was unfortunate that the illegal miners hid
under local artisanal miners in the country to perpetrate their act. Adegbite said that despite the ban on illegal mining
activities in Zamfara since February 2019, some illegal mining activities were
still going on in the state, especially by foreign nationals. He said that the foreign nationals, who had been
identified included Chinese, Burkinabe, and Senegalese among others. Adegbite said the Chinese nationals in particular, lured
artisanal miners with money to work for them. “We are going to go diplomatic by interacting with the
Chinese Embassy in Nigeria, so that it does not seem like we are unfairly
targeting their people. “We will present the facts to them so that they can also make sure they keep this people in check,’’ the minister said. Gov Tambuwal‘s uncle dies He explained that illegal mining persisted in the
country, especially by foreigners because there had not been any prosecution of
culprits. Adegbite said that the collaboration of state governments
was, however, needed to address the situation effectively. He said about 17 foreign illegal miners had so far been
apprehended in Osun while two were apprehended in Zamfara, adding that they
would be prosecuted at the Federal High Court. Adegbite said that as part of the efforts to curb illegal
mining activities in the country, the ministry was considering the need to
register all local and foreign miners. He said that the ministry was also in the process of
registering all artisanal miners in the country, since government had decided
to bring them into the sector’s mainstream. Adegbite noted that the illegal foreign miners carried
out their activities with the active connivance of Nigerians, saying that no
foreigner could come into the country for illegal mining without conniving with
Nigerians. “A lot of our people erroneously accept this people,
invite them because they believe they can help them with equipment to increase
their wins,’’ he said. Adegbite said it had been discovered that a lot of the
foreign illegal miners were in the country illegally because most of them had visitor’s
visa, which lasted for only six months. In the light of this, the minister said the ministry
would work with the Ministry of Interior to ascertain the status of foreigners
so as to remove the illegal ones among them.