The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is offering a discount to micro, small and medium scale enterprises to get their products registered. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo announced the discount in tweets shared on his Twitter handle on Saturday. READ ALSO:  No guidelines for flights resumption yet – FAAN According to Yemi Osinbayo, the agency will offer MSMEs an 80% discount for a period of six months to register their products. “Thanks to NAFDAC’s automated product administration & monitory systems, MSMEs can now register & certify their products at an 80% discount rate for the period of six months,” Osinbajo wrote. Thanks to NAFDAC’s Automated Product Administration & Monitory systems, MSMEs can now register & certify their products at an 80% discount rate for the period of 6 months Other measures include zero tariffs for first 200 people on the platform and a waiver of late admin charges. pic.twitter.com/UYwdQnQlOK — Prof Yemi Osinbajo (@ProfOsinbajo) May 16, 2020 “Other measures include zero tariffs for first 200 people on the platform and a waiver of late admin charges.” Explaining the need for the palliatives, Mojisola Adeyeye (pictured), NAFDAC director-general, said: “We did this because times are hard and people are faced with many challenges, this is an opportunity for us to look inward and support the country through MSMEs”. “Micro, small businesses are significant in terms of driving the country’s economy, without them, our economy may suffer, without them recession might come in.” Adeyeye said the fines on those companies that had already registered but yet to renew their licences would also be waived to encourage growth. This is the second discount given to MSMEs in recent times; the first being a flat rate of N5,000 to register business names with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) from October 2018 to March 2019. The Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has been making efforts to improve Nigeria’s ease of doing business and set up the presidential enabling business environment council (PEBEC) to remove bottlenecks in the business environment and attract investments.