Bola Tinubu, national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC),  has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing Ibrahim Gambari as his new Chief of Staff. Mr Ibrahim Gambari, who was former minister of External Affairs between 1984 and 1985, replaces Abba Kyari who died of COVID-19 complications in April. The retired diplomat hails from Ilorin, Kwara State. His appointment was officially announced by the Presidency on Wednesday at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. Mr Tinubu, in a statement on Wednesday, said Mr Gambari, a professor of political science, is a prudent choice at this crucial moment. “The appointment of Prof. Ibrahim Agboola Gambari as the new Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari is a laudable one. Prof. Gambari is a renowned diplomat, statesman and scholar who has served this nation in many important positions. “His intellect, broad experience and skills in administration and diplomacy have adequately prepared and equipped him for the important job he now has. I congratulate Professor Gambari on his selection and commend President Buhari for making such a thoughtful and prudent choice at this crucial moment.” Mr Tinubu said the new aide would help President Buhari advance his policy and governance priorities “just as he did in the past when he served as Minister of External Affairs in the 1980s.” The former Lagos State governor said he had known Mr Gambari for a while and he is not a stranger to the ruling party. “My personal knowledge of Chief of Staff Gambari is that he is an erudite man who knows and loves this country and who strongly believes in the Nigerian project and President Buhari’s change agenda. He is no stranger to our party, APC, and its progressive national vision. “Over a long and illustrious career, Prof. Gambari has proved his mettle nationally and internationally. His resume takes a back seat to none. READ ALSO  Man sentenced for assaulting Police officer He distinguished himself as an Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and as the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on Cyprus, Zimbabwe and Myanmar and Special Representative in Angola.”