The Bill and Melinda  Gates Foundation on Monday denied offering any financial inducement to  the House of Representatives for the passage of the controversial  Infectious Diseases Control Bill. The foundation made 
the denial in a submission before the House of Representatives ad hoc 
committee investigating the alleged $10 million bribe offered to the 
House leadership to ease the passage of the
 bill Denying any 
involvement in any offering payment to the House or any lawmaker, the 
foundation averred that the allegation is false and lacks merit. Represented by a 
Director of the foundation in Nigeria, Paulin Basinga, the Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation, said at the public hearing by the House ad hoc
 committee that it heard about the allegation
 through media reports purporting that the foundation made payments to 
the House. She declared that 
“such allegations are entirely false and without merit. To be clear, the
 foundation has not offered any financial incentive to any member of 
Nigeria’s legislative branch for the passage
 of legislation nor has it offered any grants to organizations in 
Nigeria in connection with the same.” Basinga informed the 
House ad hoc committee that the foundation adheres to strict ethical and
 legal guidelines across all areas of its operations. The country director 
explained that the foundation is driven by sheer conviction that all 
lives have equal value and therefore, everyone deserves to lead a 
healthy productive life. This commitment, she 
added is discharged unbiasedly in various locations and settings around 
the world in which it operates, putting into consideration international
 best practices, including the United
 States private foundation restrictions on political and legislative 
engagements. She revealed that in 
Nigeria, the foundation focuses on improving the quality of life of the 
people and is working with many partners to achieve the goal through 
investments in areas of health and development
 priorities. “For COVID-19 
pandemic and other challenging health issues, the foundation told the 
House ad hoc committee chaired by Rep. Henry Nwauba that it is currently
 providing support to the federal government’s
 response team by helping to strengthen diagnostic testing, protect 
at-risk population and to develop vaccines, treatment and diagnostics in
 response to the pandemic. Basinga pledged the 
foundation’s support to assist the federal government as the Buhari’ 
administration continues to make concerted efforts toward containing the
 impact of the pandemic and leveraging on
 the national COVID-19 multi-sectoral pandemic response plan.