.As NCDC plans to provide guidance for businesses to re-open safely President Muhammadu Buhari, on Monday, enjoined governors
to work closely with the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to engender
better harmony in the daunting task of checking the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Femi Adesina, the president’s Special Adviser on
Media and Publicity, in a statement in Abuja, said Buhari made the call during
an online meeting with the Governors’ Forum. The president disclosed that the PTF had briefed him on
the next steps in the national response to the pandemic, “and I have directed
that they work very closely with the governors”. He said the pandemic was “beyond technology, power, and
resources,” noting that countries that had all those things, were recording the
highest casualties around the world. “We have to be very careful. We need to continue to
educate and persuade the people to accept the reality of the situation, and do
all that is necessary to stay safe,” the president said. The presidential aide revealed that the meeting also
discussed economic and security issues, among others, and that the governors
lauded the president on the “leadership and direction” he had given the country
in combating COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)
says it will provide guidance for businesses to take responsibility and re-open
safely, as it continues to work to stop the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19). The Director-General (DG), of NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, said this at the Presidential Task Force (PTF), media briefing on Monday, in Abuja.  Iheakweazu said President Muhammadu Buhari, had expressed
concerns over re-opening of the economy, when the PTF briefed him on the public
health response to COVID-19 in the country. He said that a consensus was reached that Nigerians might
have to live with the pandemic up to months in the forseeable future. “But how do we move from the narrative of a lockdown to a
narrative of a safe re-opening so that people can go back to their livelihoods,
why still staying safe from this virus? “How do we do that in the farms, markets, schools, in
transports, our offices and in aviation? Really this has to be our focus in the
coming weeks, to provide guidance for businesses to take responsibility and
re-open safely,” he said. Ihekweazu said that there were no easy answers, neither
could all the answers come from NCDC alone, but from all Nigerians to also help
in giving directions to the country. “But I was happy to hear the efforts being made by the
aviation industry, the detail thinking that has started to happen in order to
eventually re-start. “Similar conversations are going on in the education
sector, and I have the privilege to some of those. “It will be much easier for Mr President, that when we
visit him in the next two weeks with a narrative that we are ready to re-open
safely, it will make his decisions easier,” he said. Ihekweazu, however, said that the biggest challenge was
how Nigerians could ensure that small businesses opened safely. “We must take every step in a deliberate and calculative
manner, due to what we have on ground with our healthcare, in order to give our
people succour. “Industries and enterprises will be given guidelines of
what they need to put in place when issuing out phase two strategy of the
lockdown ease,” he stated. In her remarks, Dr Fiona Braka, the Officer in Charge,
World Health Organisation (WHO), Country Office, explained Multi-system
inflammatory disorder in Children. Braka said that recent information from Europe had
described the ailment as acute illness found in children and adolescents that
often sent them into shock. She, however, said that experts were still looking into
the cause and the risk factors. The country Rep also disclosed that new guidelines,
intended for healthcare professionals, were now available on the WHO website. “Most cases will recover after a period of two weeks,”
she explained.