The suspect, allegedly responsible for blackmailing veteran musician, Queen Salawa Abeni, with nude pictures, has been arrested by operatives of Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Lagos State Police Command. The 19-year-old suspect, Olufowoke Oladunjoye, was arrested by decoy team of RRS last Thursday, after monitoring him for days. His arrest followed a directive from the Lagos Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, who ordered the police squad to fish out the unknown individual, attempting to blackmail the musician sometime in April 2020. The directive paid off as the police unit, led by Olatinji Disu, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), engaged in technical diagnosis of the complaint, which few days after, narrowed down on the suspect. Making confessional statement, Emmanuel, a National Diploma holder of Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH), Lagos, and a resident of Brentfield Avenue, Peace Estate, Magboro, Ogun State, claimed he found the nude pictures in a memory card he picked up on the floor in school, around November 2019. The suspect also confessed to be working alone, as the ploy was to publish some nude pictures of Abeni, in exchange for money. The suspect, a 2017/2018 Electrical Engineering, added that after downloading the nude photographs of Salawa Abeni on his phone, he picked up her mobile number from her Instagram page. He said: “On 1st of April, 2020, I chatted her up and also called her after sending few of the photos to her online. My intention was to negotiate with her for few bucks and for me to destroy the photographs. “ I thought everything was going on fine until the following day when I heard the news of the blackmail over the radio. I was with my mother. She was even cursing the blackmailer unknown to her that I was the brain behind it. “ I immediately sneaked out, destroyed the memory card and threw my mobile phone and SIM card into nearby wetland in Magboro. Since then, I never mentioned it to anyone and called Madam Salawa Abeni about it again.” Commenting on the arrest, CP Odumosu stated that no individual would be allowed to commit a crime in Lagos from any State or escape to other States in Nigeria to evade arrest. He advised guardians to monitor their wards, emphasizing that the internet is a fertile ground for opportunities but the State Command would not allow criminals use it as avenue to exploit law – abiding Lagosians.