Japanese Emperor Naruhito on Friday marked the first anniversary of his accession to the Chrysanthemum throne under a state of emergency because of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Wearing a face mask, the 60-year-old emperor bowed to people along the street when a car carrying him entered the Imperial Palace in the morning for him to attend a monthly festival. The pandemic forced the government to cancel a planned visit to Britain by Naruhito and Empress Masako in the spring and a birthday event for the emperor in February. The couple held a meeting with Shigeru Omi, an expert from a government panel on the novel coronavirus, earlier this month. “The spread of this infectious disease is a big challenge for humanity. I am deeply concerned many lives are also in danger in our country and that many people are facing various difficulties,” the emperor told Omi. The message was intended to be delivered to the public, an aide to the emperor told Kyodo News. Before the outbreak, the imperial couple had spent much of their time on ceremonies and celebrations linked to the enthronement. Naruhito told a news conference in February ahead of his birthday: “One of the most memorable moments in the last 10 months was being given heartfelt congratulatory messages by many people at events and ceremonies in Tokyo and the rest of the country.” “Masako and I are very glad that Masako has been able to attend all events and rites associated with the accession,” he added. As crown princess, Masako, had often stayed out of the public eye as she suffered from stress-induced illness and undergone treatment. However the empress, who studied at the universities of Harvard and Oxford, greeted overseas guests including US President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron. The couple visited some of the victims of Typhoon Hagibis, which killed about 100 people in October, as they travelled to two of the hardest-hit areas in the prefectures of Fukushima and Miyagi. Naruhito ascended the throne on May 1, 2019, a day after his father Akihito, who had been in reign for three decades, stepped down in Japan’s first abdication in 202 years. Read also: Hungary PM warns of potential second wave of coronavirus in October-November The 86-year-old former emperor experienced the tumultuous years of a militaristic Japan under his father emperor Hirohito and its ignominious defeat. Japan’s imperial family claims the longest hereditary lineage in the world, stretching back more than 2,600 years, according to the government. However, the existence of legendary figures, including emperor Jimmu, the first leader, and the sun goddess, has been contested. (dpa)