Akwa Ibom state Governor Udom Emmanuel on Friday, maintained that the state is living in peace and its people would not want anything that may endanger the prevailing peace in the state. He also cautioned against any discussion about 2023, saying it is too early to do so. Governor Emmanuel, who spoke in a statewide broadcast in Uyo, said his administration would resist attempts by individuals or groups to return the state to the period of fear, occasioned by kidnapping and politically motivated crimes. He called on the people to lay less emphasis on party politics and its attendant negative consequences on the social and economic life of the state, but concentrate on issues that can build and unite the state. “This is the time for governance and all hands must be on deck to ensure that we move our state collectively to a path of steady growth and development. It is too early to engage in the politics of 2023. “We will have enough time to do so, when the time is ripe. Good leaders do not plan for the next elections; they plan for the next generations “Let us therefore, see the next generation of citizens as assets that must be nurtured, expanded and made ready for the future. “Destroying the chords of our unity at the altar of partisan politics, or waging wars against brothers and sisters just to settle ancient animosities should be discouraged. “Let me emphatically state here, that Akwa Ibom people enjoy the peace and security we currently have and will resist any attempt by individuals or groups to return us to the evil years when kidnapping and politically motivated killings brought untold fears into this land. “Akwa Ibom people have made a choice to stay and live in peace, and this is the new normal. Those who traffic in violence should take note. “Government will ensure that those who are planning such evil as a strategy for winning elections will be sorely disappointed. “Akwa Ibom people have gone beyond those fearful years. I call on all patriotic citizens to come join the train of peace and development as it moves gingerly on the path of our completion agenda. “We have achieved a lot for our people in five years, and we hope to do as much with the resources at our disposal in the coming years,” the governor said. He maintained that he has been able to utilise the resources of the state to touch lives in the areas of industrialization, agriculture, education, healthcare delivery services, infrastructural development, aviation, youth and women empowerments, rural development, sports and tourism.