Two medical practitioners on Monday advised the Federal Government to accept the Madagascar’s herbal medicine for the treatment and cure of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, but must subject it to clinical analysis before use. In separate interviews  in Lagos, they said that the herbal medicine should be subjected to further clinical/laboratory tests before its use in Nigeria. But, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had warned against the use of Covid-Organics (CVO), an organic herbal concoction produced by Madagascar, without any medical supervision, and also cautioned against self-medication. WHO said that they have not approved the concoction for the patients suffering from COVID-19, but on Thursday, however, called for clinical trials of CVO. Madagascar President, Andry Rajoelina, had slammed WHO for not endorsing his country’s concoction for the treatment and cure of COVID-19. The Malagasy president had in April officially launched the Covid-Organics (CVO), an organic herbal concoction, claiming that it could prevent and cure patients suffering from the novel Coronavirus. He had complained: “If it were a European country which had discovered this remedy, would there be so many doubts? ”The problem is that it comes from Africa. And they cannot accept that a country like Madagascar, which is one of the poorest countries in the world, has discovered this formula to save the world,” he said in an exclusive interview with France 24, Paris-based international television news network and Radio France International. Speaking, a Medical Imaging Scientist, Dr Livinus Abonyi, described the idea of using the Madagascar’s organic herbal concoction in Nigeria as “a welcome development”. Abonyi, also a Lecturer in the Department of Medical Radiography, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, University of Lagos College of Medicine,however, advised that the concoction must be subjected to laboratory verification before administering it on COVID-19 patients in the country. He said that Nigeria could go ahead to use the herbal medicine, after its curative and safety potency had been verified in the country. Police detain officer for killing 52 -year-old man in Abuja According to him, Nigeria has the capacity to clinically verify the effectiveness of the drug through assistance of the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). Abonyi said that it would be more economical for Nigeria to use the traditional herbal medicine in managing and curing the Coronavirus disease. “It is a very welcome development to accept and use the Madagascar’s herbal medicine in Nigeria because, in a situation like this, you should have open-mind and subject yourself to several options. “To get the best result, let few COVID-19 patients be selected and placed on the herbal medication, while a number of other patients will also be placed on the normal conventional treatment we are previously using in treating the COVID-19. “If the herbal medication produces a better result- it implies it is effective-, we should continue with it but if not, we should discard it and revert to the conventional treatment for COVID-19 we are using before. “To me, this kind of initiative/innovation supposed to be saluted and encouraged. “But the problem is that Africans don’t trust themselves; they believe that everything should come from the white people. “We Africans must try to make humanity understand that Africa is not just dances and songs, that Africa can bring real, effective and serious solutions to the various health concerns of humanity,” Abonyi said. Contributing, a General Physician, Dr Omogbohun Patrick, advised that the Madagascar’s herbal medicine must be subjected to further analysis to ascertain its precautionary, dosage and prescription properties. Patrick, who is the Medical Director, MercyWay Medical Centre, Ejigbo in Lagos, insisted that the herbal medicine must be submitted to NAFDAC for its verification and acceptance. He said that this would show that the drug would be effectively suitable for all kinds of COVID-19 patients. According to him, COVID-19 patients comprises people with diabetes, asthma, kidney-diseases, cancer and other health conditions. “Therefore, precautions should be taken to ensure that other health conditions are not endangered in the course of trying to cure their Coronavirus disease. “The determination of dosage/prescription is always a challenge in administering herbal medicine. “This is why it is very necessary that NAFDAC and NIPRD carry out further tests and analysis on the drug to ascertain its effectiveness and dosage regarding all kinds of COVID-19 patients, whether asthmatic, diabetic or cancer person,” Patrick said.