The Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has explained that religious centres will only be opened in nation’s Capital when medical experts and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 are convinced on the improvement recorded in the Territory as regards efforts put in place to curtail the spread of COVID-19. He gave this explanation on Tuesday yesterday during a briefing following a meeting between the FCTA and representatives of the FCT Christian and Muslim communities led by the FCT Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman, Dr Samson Jonah and the FCT League of Imams Initiative, Dr Tajudeen Mohammed Bello Adigun. The Minister stressed that FCT is guided by advise from medical experts and guidelines from the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 which had directed that all measures approved two weeks earlier be extended for another two weeks and these include the restriction on religious gatherings. “Based on the guidance of the medical experts and consultations with highest authority, the Presidential Task Force gave a decision and communication on the fact that all the measures approved two weeks ago be extended for another period of time to enable organisations, individuals and all of us plan for a gradual opening up of the society.” While acknowledging that the primary concern of all leaders and public officials is to save lives, the Minister noted that this involves monitoring very closely reports from the health authorities which according to him has indicated that after nine weeks of the pandemic and attempts to curtail its spread not much has changed. He further explained that all actions on the re-opening of the society is hinged on the advice of medical experts who at the moment do not support it. However, in the light of this, the Minister and the leaders of religious organisations agreed to work together towards the eventual opening up of worship places at a time to be determined by the Presidential Task Force, based on medical advice. In the interim however, Malam Bello explained that a team consisting of representatives of both religious organisations and their leadership, as well as the FCTA has been constituted to gradually look at the modalities and protocols to which the places of worship will be operated when COVID-19 lockdown in FCT is eventually relaxed. He however explained that such modalities are not new considering that certain protocols were put in place at the height of insecurity in the country when religious places were the targets for terrorists. “Therefore certain protocols such as use of face masks compulsory hand washing and social distancing will have to be adhered to when places of worship eventually re-open.” Said the Minister. Speaking further, he also hinted that such protocols will include the identification and placement of modalities for the decontamination of all places of worship adding that these protocols are necessary so that when eventually places of worship are re-opened, they will be done with minimal risks to the worshippers. The religious leaders in their seperate comments appreciated the efforts of the FCT Administration in the fight against COVID-19 especially in the distribution of palliatives even as it was agreed at the meeting that whatever palliatives were available following the extension of the lockdown, it will also be re-distributed through the organs and structures of the religious organisations. The meeting was called at the behest of the religious leaders who requested for the re-opening of places of worship in the FCT, following pressure from their followers.