If Kim Jong Un is holed up in his luxe seaside hideaway in the port city of Wonsan, he may have plenty of company a harem of 2,000 sex slaves, a report said Friday. The North Korean dictator resurrected his late grandfather’s “Pleasure Squad” of secret sex entertainers in 2015, The Sun reported. And while the dictator’s location and the state of his health remain a mystery, some reports say he fled to a luxury resort in the port city located along the eastern side of the Korean Peninsula to avoid catching the coronavirus and the UK paper speculates that he might have his harem with him. “It’s within the walls of his ultra-protected palaces that his Pleasure Squad provides entertainment for high-ranking North Korean officials,” the paper reported. “The 2,000-strong harem is said to be made to sing and dance for the nation’s elite — but also take part in bizarre sexual games and orgies.” Kim is widely known for his love of booze and fine food and the Pleasure Squad provides him with kinky carnal pleasures as well. Some members are said to have been as young as 13 when they were taken out of school and forced into sex work. Defectors from North Korea even say the girls have to undergo invasive medical examinations to prove they’re virgins before they can join. The Pleasure Squad or Kippumjo began during the reign of North Korea’s founder, Kim Il-sung, who is still considered the country’s Eternal President, despite dying in 1994. In the late 1970s, at the height of his power, he sent out his officials to scour the nation for its most attractive young women and girls to act as singers and dancers, according to The Sun. Some worked as maids, but the most sexually attractive were ordered to become “comfort women” for powerful officials. Kim Il-sung especially liked virgins because he believed having sex with them allowed him to absorb the girls’ “ki” or life-force. Authorities would tell the girls’ parents their daughters were on an important mission to serve Kim Il-sung, and they had no say in the matter. The girls would then be kept in party leaders’ mansions and had to do whatever they were told. Later, officers in the North Korean military often took the women as wives after they were “retired” from their sexual duties in their 20s. Kenji Fujimoto, a sushi chef who worked for the Kims between 1989 and 2001, claimed that Kim Jong-il’s brother, Jang Song Thaek, would “audition” girls for the dictator. READ ALSO  Kim Jong-un appears in public – state media “If they were singers, they would sing right there,” Fujimoto told NK News. “There would be separate auditions for dancers. The panel would ask them to raise their legs and all that.” The cook said in order to get the auditions, girls would have to have sex with Jang Song Thaek first. He was later executed, NK News reported. 