The chairman of the Osun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Elder Sunday Olatunde Akanfe has appealed to members of the party to join hands with the leadership to move the party to a level of strength and bring it to winning ways. Akanfe, popularly called Atidade who spoke on the occasion of his formal assumption of office yesterday appeal to all stakeholders of the party in the state, “experienced leaders of repute, political office holders at different levels to rejig their commitment to the cause of the PDP in Osun state. READ ALSO:  Kaduna quarantines 50 inter-state travel ban violators “The time is now to rally round the party with your wealth of experience and your good offices. On my part, I have met with a number of our leaders and this I will continue to do to advance the cause of the party. It is my belief that a tree does not make a forest. According to him, though the mantle of the leadership of the party has fallen on him, there is the need to work as a team if much must be achieved, “The mantle of administrative leadership of the party may have fallen on me, but working as a team has become more expedient to meet the yearnings of the good people of Osun State. “I enjoin our leaders to be ready to lead with unflinching mind of service.  As the main opposition party in the state, it is good to lead the teeming army of our people to the battle ahead, but our common goal will be more enhanced when we are ready to serve as leaders. “We should be mindful of agitations of our youths for impactful results from our actions. My interactions with a number of them in the last couple of days have left me with no doubt they are eager to dispense their energy, professionalism and expertise in various fields to help the party. “All they need is the assurance of our steadfastness as leaders. We must therefore conduct the affairs of this party with openness, accountability and probity. We cannot afford to fail.” The chairman assured that  in his new capacity he was ready to work with all members and starta of the partry to achieve positive results, “Henceforth, I will work with various organs of the party including essential Directorates to plant the seed, water and nurture our message of task, the “Operation Rescue Osun State”. “The State Working Committee led by my humble self will work with local government and ward party executives to ensure the mission is not lost at any point in time or to any dotted lines of distractions. “The pathway to success are often challenging but are surely not impassible. We must win to rescue and this must be our focus.” According to him, his leadership of the PDP will see to the 10 years reign of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state and enthrone better governance, “To the ruling party in the state, I want to say that the die is cast. The moment of truth is here. Your dubious and unprofitable stranglehold on the state is enough. The good people of Osun State have watched you struggled with various forms of lies and fraud in the past ten years. We have seen your best of indebtedness. We have seen your best of dancing on a spot. Your time is up,” he said.