…Says it’s work in progress, no distraction The Presidency has listed the achievements of the Buhari administration in the last five years, saying “where the lofty goals are yet to be attained, it is work in progress, and eyes are firmly fixed on the ball, no distraction’’. A factsheet released by Mr. Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, in Abuja on Thursday, maintained that the government swept into office on the wings of Change, and that change has been wrought in nearly all phases of national life. According to the presidential aide, the three umbrella areas on which government based its interventionist agenda are: security, reviving the economy (with particular emphasis on job creation, especially for youths), and fighting corruption. “In these three areas, where we are today cannot be compared with where we used to be. “By May 2015, insecurity had badly fractured the fabric of the nation. No one could wager that the country would survive the next month, not to talk of another year. “Bombs went off like firecrackers, insurgents ran riot round the country, other forms of crime and criminality held sway. Life was nasty, brutish and short,’’ he added. Adesina also narrated how over five years, the battle had been taken to insurgents and criminals across the country, saying “they are being extinguished by the day, and very close to complete extirpation’’. He said: “The economy, long dependent on a mono product – petroleum, is being retooled, refocused, with diversification as a task that must be accomplished. “Agriculture has been given a fillip, manufacturing has got a shot in the arm, and solid minerals are contributing a large chunk to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).’’ According to Adesina, the country is very close to food security, with rice, beans, maize, millet, and all sorts of grain no longer imported, adding that “we now eat what we grow’’. On the war against corruption, the presidential aide said: “No quarter is asked, and none is given. Commit the crime, do the term. No retreat, no surrender.’’ Adesina further maintained that: “Facts speak for themselves. And that is what we present at this auspicious season of the fifth anniversary of the Buhari administration. “Facts are stubborn things, no matter how anybody tries to deny, distort or deride them.’’ Meanwhile, the Presidency has revealed that the first anniversary of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term will be marked low-keyed. According to a statement by the President’s special aide, Garba Shehu, narratives of the government’s achievements over the past five years which would normally have been showcased by Ministers and the party, will go digital. While noting that the last five years have been full of historic achievements, Shehu urged all Nigerians to visit the Presidential handles and read how the decades-long wishes of the Nigerian people are being met. ‪He thanked Nigerians for entrusting the country’s government in the hands of President Muhammadu Buhari.