In its efforts to assist the federal government in the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic otherwise  referred to as ‘COVID-19’,  the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) is partnering with Bloom Public Health (Bloom) to facilitate the strengthening of its capacity on research and development of pharmaceuticals. NIPRD according to a statement said that the partnership will further strengthen  its capacity on research and development of pharmaceuticals to ensure the availability of quality medicines to all  Nigeria during and post the covid-19 pandemic. Additionally, it said that Bloom will serve as NIPRD’s technical partner for accessing and implementing donor funded initiatives to enhance NIPRD’s impact in Nigeria. The CEO, Bloom Public Health, Professor Chimezie Anyakora speaking on the development said, “the covid19 pandemic amplifies the urgent need to strengthen the Nigerian Pharmaceutical sector and NIPRD as an institution is extremely instrumental to the growth and development of the sector. “This partnership will ensure that NIPRD is fully supported technically to lead our country’s pharmaceutical sector reform and we are honored and privileged to be able to contribute our quota to this great journey. “The Bloom Public Health and NIPRD partnership will catalyze a pharmaceutical renaissance and we are looking forward to the impact it will have on public health”.On his part, the Director General, NIPRD, Dr. Obi Peter Adigwe stated that strategic plan of the two bodies is to nurture partnerships with institutions, both local and international  to stimulate local production of excipients, pharma inputs, quality medicines and other innovative interventions for the sector. “the partnership between Bloom and NIPRD is the type of Africa-led collaboration that will revolutionize the development of home-grown solutions for our healthcare issues. “With NIPRD being one of a kind in the Region and also statutorily charged with the responsibility for research and development of drugs, vaccines, phytomedicines and commodities, our strategic plan is to use carefully nurtured partnerships with institutions, Nigerian and Foreign universities and funding agencies to stimulate local production of excipients, pharma inputs, quality medicines and other innovative interventions for the sector. “We are glad to partner with Bloom Public Health as it is just the sort of contextual alliance that can expedite access to healthcare for our people”, he added. Given the shared interest, both Parties desire to work together on a mutual strategy of strengthening the health systems to guarantee access to safe and affordable health products for Nigerians.Bloom Public Health concept was born from the need to create strategic and operational solutions at the African level for public health problems, and particularly in the pharmaceutical sector.