Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State have raised N125 million to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. In a statement by the State Chairman of the party, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, at a press conference held in Awka, the sum will be donated to the communities in the state. Some major contributors to the initiative were led by the PDP vice presidential candidate in the 2019 general election and the former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi. Others include the Senator representing Anambra Central at the National Assembly, Senator Uche Ekwunife and her colleague representing Anambra North, Senator Stella Oduah, other elected PDP officials from Anambra State as well as other party leaders. In a donation that will go to 60 persons and families in each community as post-lockdown community support, the party collectively pledged a total of N125 million, part of which will be used to provide food and other items directly to all wards in the state. From the donation, items and cash worth N15 million will be donated to Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, Awka; General Hospital, Onitsha, Nnamdi Azikiwe Teaching Hospital, Nnewi, other hospitals and health centres. The Chairman of the Anambra PDP COVID-19 Welfare/Distribution committee, Mrs. Chidi Onyemelukwe, said: “We are committing N125 million for the distribution of food items and cash to our members in all the political wards in the state, and there are modalities. “It is a process that is continuing and not a one off thing, so more money will be committed into this as our members make donation. Every ward, every community, every local government in Anambra State will benefit from this. “We are also donating a testing centre to Anambra State government, and we have written to them to make available a site where this can be situated. Besides, three tertiary health care facilities in the state will also be receiving N12 million worth of equipment from the party to update their facilities and help in the fight against COVID-19,” she said.