By Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi (Opinion) I just got off the phone from talking to a good friend, and she told me that for the past one week she has felt numb and listless. She spoke about a sense of loss and despair. She described her feeling in one word – depressed. I listened, encouraged her and we both prayed for peace and an end to the storms raging around us. When she had finished telling me about all the things she has been concerned about, I told her I have been feeling exactly the same way. She said, “But you are always the optimistic and strong one”. I told her, these times do not distinguish the optimists from the pessimists nor the weak from the strong. We all have cause to be worried, anxious and deeply concerned. The events of the past one week in Nigeria have resulted in so much loss and devastation, and just like almost everything else in our country, what could have been resolved peacefully became a bewilderingly complex issue. It should be hard to find anyone who would say that the thousands of Nigerian youth who took to the streets to protest police brutality and an end to the dreaded SARS were wrong. Even for the cynical, or those directly unaffected by the antics of this disbanded force, by the time we heard all the stories of abuse, harassment, intimidation, sexual assault, extortion and the like, committed in the name of this rogue group, there was broad-based consensus that the young people were right. They needed to go. No parent wants to receive the dead body of a child. No taxpayer should be interested in sustaining a system that legitimizes violence and impunity in the name of law and order. The demands of the #EndSars protesters were specific and actionable. A lot has been said about how well organised and peaceful the protests were, so I will not dwell on that. Then October 20th 2020 happened at the Lekki Tollgate, followed by an orgy of looting and violence that spread all over the country. Everyone is entitled to their own truths and opinions but not their own facts. It is ungodly for anyone to engage in a debate of who or how many people died at the Lekki Toll Gate when what is simply needed is an official inquiry into what happened. It does not matter if it was one person or fifty. No one should be intimidated into silence. Let the eye-witnesses come forward at such an inquiry, with witness protection if necessary and state what they observed and experienced. Blood was shed, whose was it? People died, how many? Shots were fired, on whose orders? These questions cannot be answered by emergency analysts on social media or the pages of newspapers, only an official investigation can unearth the whole truth. The torrent of grainy videos circulating online and the various accounts of the scared and injured youth who were actually present (and not tweeting feverishly from Canada, London or France) should be channeled into this independent investigation. Everyone deserves the truth. If my generation had all been gunned down during our years of protesting against military dictatorship, we would not be here, we should all be outraged when guns are pointed and fired at our children. Now, I will move on to another issue that emerged off the back of the crisis in Lagos last week, the discovery of warehouses in various States containing CACOVID food palliatives. The narrative that emerged about this was a terrible one, that State governments have been hoarding foodstuff meant for the poor, while people starved during the Covid-19 lockdowns. I do not know exactly what happened at the Lekki Tollgate. However, I know about the CACOVID palliatives. In the aftermath of the #EndSars crisis, trust and truth have become major casualties. It is not true that State governments deliberately hoarded CACOVID palliatives. It is CACOVID (the corporate alliance that came together in Nigeria to support the Federal and State governments to tackle Covid-19) who were trying to ensure that their donated items were procured and distributed according to an agreed format with the States. Many States had not received all the donated items, and under the CACOVID terms, they could not distribute, if this was the case. Even States who had received all their items had to wait for clearance and an official handover from CACOVID. A lot of abuse and curses have been rained on State Governors because of this. Lives have been lost as people have gone on rampage looting warehouses, including private ones. CACOVID issued an official statement explaining what happened and confirming that the delays were not the fault of the State governments. The Nigerian Governors Forum has also issued a statement to this effect. No one is listening, no one cares. No one is interested in a narrative by states on exactly what happened, only the illogical conclusion that governments deliberately starved their citizens. The handful of people I spoke to about this expressed surprise when I narrated what happened based on my experience with the process, but they did not bother to correct strident assertions they had made on their social media handles. No one will believe how hard we fought in Ekiti State to make sure that we were one of the first to get approval from CACOVID for us to give out our food items because it was taking too long and we needed to attend to our people. No one will believe how many sleepless nights our team had working on this issue. Even when the distribution was done in broad daylight, with deliveries to local governments, the elderly, religious bodies, community leaders, associations, unions, widows, farmstead communities a very long list, people were still incited online to go on a hunt for ‘hoarded palliatives’. We issued statements, provided video footage of the distribution, testimonies from recipients and photographs. READ ALSO: Opinion: A complete meltdown beyond belief We did ‘Salaye Olympics’ on radio, television and online. No palliatives warehouse was found in Ekiti State, but it did not prevent people from looting the Federal Government Food Reserve Silos and carting away agricultural products as well as inedible corn meant for planting. It did not deter them from looting and burning the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) office and depriving the State of emergency supplies such as mattresses, blankets, toiletries, buckets and so on.