Andy Murray hailed Rafael Nadal’s 13th French Open title as ‘one the best, maybe the best, records in sport’ and predicted that either he or Novak Djokovic will end their career as the GOAT (greatest of all time). Murray did not catch the entirety of Nadal’s mauling of Djokovic in Sunday’s final at Roland Garros but would be surprised if anyone ever equalled the Spaniard’s record at another Grand Slam event and still thinks he could add another couple of titles to his collection. Daily Times gathered that Nadal, 34, swept Djokovic, the world No. 1 from Serbia, aside 6-0 6-2 7-5 in two hours and 41 minutes to equal Federer’s 20-strong Grand Slam haul – a record in the men’s game. READ ALSO: Roger Federer to play French Open in 2020 And with Federer already into his 40th year, Murray suspects either 17-time major winner Djokovic or joint-leader Nadal will end their career with the most Slam titles. It’s impossible to answer those questions because you never know,’ said Murray ahead of his meeting with Fernando Verdasco at the bett1Hulks Indoors in Cologne. ‘Someone can get injured, have an issue like I had and that changes your whole career. I would think it would be between Rafa and Novak. I would think it would be between the two of them. ‘And yeah, like I said, it depends a little bit on many things but if they both stay healthy and they retire at the same time, I think it will be between those two.’ On Nadal’s 13 French Open wins, the former world No. 1 from Dunblane added: ‘Yeah amazing achievement, I don’t think what he has done at Roland Garros will ever be beaten. I don’t see anybody beating that. Most Grand Slam titles (ATP) 20 – Federer 20 – Nadal 17 – Djokovic 14 – Sampras ‘Obviously he could win another one and make it 14 or 15, whatever he finishes on, but he is one short of winning the same amount of Grand Slams as Sampras did at just one tournament. ” It’s incredible. ‘I think it’s one of the best records in sport, maybe the best, so nothing really more to say on that. I don’t think it will ever be repeated and I actually don’t think anyone will get close to it.’ In other Murray-related news, the three-time Grand Slam champion has returned to the ATP player council.