Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has apologized to Nigerians over police brutality and has also revealed the demands of #EndSARS protesters. In a series of tweets gathered by Daily Times on Friday, October 16, the vice president said, “Dear Nigerians, I know that many of you are angry, and understandably so. We could’ve moved faster and for this we are sorry,” he said in a series of tweets on his handle late Friday. “I fully understand how many young people feel. Many feel that we have been too silent and have simply not done enough. These feelings of frustration are justified.” “There are far too many people who have been brutalized at the hands of the police and this is unacceptable. “We must take responsibility for protecting young people, even sometimes from those who are paid to protect them.” “They’re deep and systemic and we’re undertaking comprehensive measures that will revamp the police by addressing issues of welfare, service conditions, and training,” he explained. READ ALSO:  #EndSARS: Gov El-Rufai constitutes panel on police brutality “We understand that you want to see action from us and I’m here to tell you that work is ongoing,” the Vice President noted. “I chaired a meeting of 36 state governors and the Minister of the FCT (NEC), where we resolved to set up judicial panels of inquiry so we can see justice served, and fast. “The reason being that only state governors, by law, can set up judicial inquiries in their states. The hearings will be public.” While reiterating the disbandment of SARS, he assured that officers from the unit will not be part of any tactical squad. Osinbajo equally commiserated with the “families of Jimoh Isiaq, and all those who have lost their lives at the hands of wayward police officers. To those injured, I wish a full and speedy recovery. “We have proposed that each state government set up a Victims’ Support Fund, which will support. This is the least that we can do to compensate for the injustice suffered at the hands of errant officers.”