It’s no news that police officers across the world often use tear gas against demonstrators at protests to repress and ward off crowds, leaving them choking, irritated and in pain. In handling issues like these, there have been disagreements on what to do and how to protect yourself when those canisters get thrown into crowds. Over the past couple of days, Nigeria has witnessed a number of protests to dight against police brutality, especially the injustices meted against citizens by a unit of the Nigerian Police Force, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). In the #EndSARS movement, Nigerian youths have taken to the streets across different states, calling for the dissolution of the special squad. READ ALSO: #EndSARSNow: Protesters take over Police headquarters (photos) The universal human right that endows people with the freedom of speech and expression makes protesting your right. But although these protests have started off peacefully, many of them have resulted in violence with peaceful protesters ending up arrested, hit with tear gas, shot and even killed. This is why it is very important to how to protect yourself and help others during protests. Wear a gas mask or use a bandana or scarf to cover your nose and mouth. Make sure that the bandana or scarf is soaked in water. This will prevent the powder from getting into your airways and allow you to breathe more easily. Also wear a head covering like a beanie or a hat so that you can get the powder off more easily. Cover as much of your skin as possible. Wear goggles to protect your eyes. Carry your things in a backpack or something you can comfortably run with. Take a bottle of clean water along. Do not wear makeup as the powder from the tear gas can easily cling to it. Avoid wearing contact lenses. Wear glasses instead. Avoid coming in contact with the cloud of tear gas as much as possible.  It is essential to keep calm and secure your face mask or bandana before helping others. Then, you have your airways (and eyes if possible) covered, look around you and see if there’s anybody you can help. If you see somebody lying or sitting down or, try to move them to a clean and ventilated area. The tear gas will settle to the ground, so make sure you find your way to higher ground. Now, after everyone who needs assistance has been handled, you need to move away from the tear gas cloud. Although your first instinct might be to run, fight it. Running will mean you taking deeper breaths and filling your lungs with more tear gas, even if you’re wearing a face mask. While seeking high ground, move quickly, but ensure to keep your breathing even. In the event that a gas canister lands right next to you, you may want to know how to put it out immediately before it causes more damage. But be warned; this is more dangerous than retreating from the area. So proceed with extra caution. As quickly as possible, wash the tear gas from your skin with large amounts of cool water. Before you touch your face, take care to wash your hands well with soap so you don’t hurt yourself. You can also spray a baking soda and water solution (three teaspoons of powder for every 8.5 ounces of liquid) in your face and mouth to neutralize the effects of tear gas particles. If your eyes are burning or your vision is blurred, take off your glasses and then rinse your eyes with plain water for several minutes. Tilt your head so water rushes over your eyes instead of splashing your face. Make sure the water is clean in order to avoid infection. Milk is probably not as sterile as clean water and is not advisable to use, but anything is better than nothing. Clean your glasses thoroughly before putting them back on. Do not re-use contacts. Once you are no longer exposed to the cloud of tear gas, the next step is to clean yourself up as soon as possible. Tear gas is a powder; it can get stuck to and linger on your clothes and shoes. Take off all the clothing that may have the chemicals on them, and leave other soiled items like shoes outside to air out. Hang your clothes in an open, ventilated area for at least 48 hours before washing them separately​ from your other uncontaminated laundry. Then, take a cold shower for at least 20 minutes to prevent tear gas from irritating your skin any further. You might have to shower a couple of times before you stop smelling of tear gas, but the first one will definitely reduce pain and irritation to a minimum. Don’t forget to wash your hair properly. After that, you’ll be able to head right back out to the demonstration.