#EndSARS protests leaders, Rinu Oduala and Temitope Majekodunmi, have been sworn in as youth members of the Lagos Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims. Their membership followed their nomination by youths in an online voting. They took their oath of office alongside the Zonal Coordinator(South-West Zone) – National Human Rights Commission, Mr Lucas Koyejo. Oduala, a brand strategist and an advocate for social justice, has been at the forefront of the agitation. READ ALSO:   #EndSARS: Apologise to Nigerians—Afenifere Leader drags Buhari Temitope, an administrator and transformational leader, has been advocating for an end to police brutality in Nigeria. The nine-member panel was set up by the state government on October 15 following the mayhem perpetrated by hijackers of the #EndSARS protests. The trio will join chairperson of the panel, Justice Doris Okuwobi (Rtd) and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa on the panel. Daily Times gathered that other panelists are Mrs Oluwatoyin Odusanya, Director, Lagos State Directorate of Citizen’s Rights and Ms Patience Udoh, a representative of the civil society groups and Mr Segun Awosanya (segalink) a human rights activist. The panel is to sit from 10am to 4pm for six months. The designated sitting days are Tuesday, Friday and Saturday at the Lagos Court of Arbitration, No 1A, Remi Oluwode Street, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. The representatives are tasked with listening to the submissions of survivors, interrogating the accused personnel, determining the veracity of all claims, recommending punishments for the guilty and appropriate compensation for the victims. Sittings will take place on Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays from 10 am to 4 pm at the Lagos Court of Arbitration – 1A, Remi Olowude Street, Maruwa Roundabout, Lekki – Epe Expressway, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. Well done to the youths in Lagos for coming together to select Rinu Oduala & Majekodunmi Temitope to join the Lagos Judicial Panel On SARS as part of our commitment to justice and compensation for victims of Police brutality. Proceedings are public, follow @LagosSarsPanel pic.twitter.com/9cNTWgaZGq